THE CONSTRUCTION AND PRINCIPAL USES OF Mathematical Instruments.

Translated from the French of M. Bion, Chief Instrument-Maker to the French King.

To which are added, The Construction and Uses of such Instruments as are omitted by M. Bion, particularly of those invented or improved by the English.

By Edmund Stone.

The whole illustrated with Thirty Folio Copper-Plates, containing the Figures, SrV. of the several Instruments.

Imitetur igitur Ars Naturam, & quod ea defiderat inveniat ; quod ofiendit fequatur. Nihil enim aut Natura extremum invenerit y aut Doftrina primum : fed Rerum Principia ab In- genio profecJa funt, & Exitus Difciplina comparantur.

Cicer. ad Heren. lib. iii.

THE SECOND EDITION.

To which is added,

A SUPPLEMENT:

Containing a further Account of some of the most useful Mathematical Instruments as now improved.

Construction and Principal Uses of Mathematical Instruments

THE CONSTRUCTION AND PRINCIPAL USES OF Mathematical Instruments.

Translated from the French of

M. B I O N,

Chief Instrument-Maker to the French King.

To which are added,

The ConftruBion and Uses of such Instruments as are

omitted by M. B I O N y particularly of those invented or improved
by the English.

By Edmund Stone.

The whole illustrated with Thirty Folio Copper-Plates, containing the
Figures, &c. of the several Instruments.

Imitetur igitur Ars Naturam, & quod ea defiderat hiveniat ; quod ojlendit fequatur. Nihil enim aut Natura extremum invenerit, aut Doftrina primum : fed Rerum Principia ab In- genio profeSla funt, & Exitus Difciplina comparantur.

Cicer. ad Heren. lib. iii.

THE SECOND EDITION.


To which is added,

A SUPPLEMENT:

Containing a further Account of some of the mod useful Mathematical

Instruments as now improved.

LONDON:

HOLLAND PRESS



First published in 1758

and reprinted as here

in 1972

By The Holland Press Ltd.,

112 Whitfield Street,

London, WiP 6DP



Printed by Redwood Press Limited,
Trowbridge, Wiltshire using paper supplied by

Frank Grunfeld Ltd., London.
Bound by Mansell Bookbinders Ltd., London.



FOREWORD



'Mathematicks are now become a popular Study, and make a part of the Education of almost every Gentleman.'

Thus Stone began the preface to his translation of Nicolas Bion's master-work over two hundred years ago, and thus today, but less neatly, speak our Ministers of Education, our Commissions, our Pundits and our Authorities.

Nicolas Bion (165?— 1733) was a most successful, if not overly original, maker of scientific instruments. He had however the rare gift of explaining clearly to the general reader how things worked. His Traite de la Construction et Principaux Usages des Instruments de Mathematique was first published in 1709 and had run into five editions in French by 1752, it had also been published in German and, as late as 1799, the Directoire was seriously considering republishing the work.

Edmund Stone (1700-1768) published his first translation of Bion in 1723, and, thanks to this and the influence of his patron, became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1725. Stone's patron was the Duke of Argyll on whose estates his father was employed as gardener. In 1758 he published a further edition of the work in response to popular demand with A Supplement concerning a further account of some of the most useful Mathematickal Instruments as now Improved.

This work gives the method of construction and the clearest possible description of the use of nearly every measuring and calculating instrument in use during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.

Stone added several important instruments to Bion's nearly exhaustive list, for example: the description and use of the Gunter's Scale, the Plain Scale, Everard's and Coggeshall's Slide Rules, the English Sector, the Proportional Compasses, the Sea Quadrant, the English Theodolite, the Circumferentor, the Surveying Wheel or Way-Wiser, the Gunners' Callipers and Gunter's Quandrant. Other specialised authors describe one or two such instruments, but nowhere else can be found such a wide-ranging, detailed, clear and never prolix description of the instruments that served the Age of Reason.

This is a book to be read together with the Voyages of Dampier and of Anson, with Robinson Crusoe, with the letters of Lord Chesterfield to his Son; it is a book that to my mind could be of great use in the class-room, to seize the imagination of the ingenious young, readily bored by arithmetic without apparent purpose; it is a book that in our Apocalyptic times would be of greater use as a manual of survival than many dealing with present day technology.

In my own experience it gives clearer and simpler solutions to problems of dialling, surveying and the applied mathematics than any other work to which I have easy access.

Its only disadvantage up to now has been its rarity and its price, and to that, this reprint provides the happy solution. It becomes once more a tool, a work-book that need not be kept sterilized in a library or a show-case for fear of theft or damage, it is a tool that can be used.

It is obviously essential to Museums to historians and students, to collectors of mathematical instruments, to artisans and to such dealers as have the leisure and inclination to study their stock in trade from other than a mercantile point of view.

PETER BROPHY



11



To his O R A C E,

JOHN,

Duke of Argyll and Greemvich, &c.

Lord Steward of His Majefty's Houfliold,




My Lord,

HE Subject of the following Treatife feems of Importance enough to claim Your Grace's Patronage j and of Use enough to deferve it. It made it's first Appearance under that of his Highnefs the Duke of Orleans : and, to render it's second equally Magnificent, craves now to be introduced under that of Your Grace. Indeed, as the first Design of it's appearing in Englijh was laid in Your Grace's Family ; and as it was carried on and finifhed in the fame, it feems to have some Title to Your Grace's Countenance : It naturally feeks Protection where it found it's Birth, and lays claim to the Privileges of a Native of your Family, as well as those of a Domeftick. What I have said of my Book, holds almost equally good of myfelf. I have been, the greateft part of my Life, an humble Retainer to Your Grace. In Your Family it was, I first caught an Affection for Mathematicks ; and it was under Your Countenance, that I took occafion to Cultivate them. Your Grace therefore has a kind of Property in all I do of this kind, and it would be an Injuftice to lay it at any other Feet.

ANOTHER Perfon would have here taken Occafion to expatiate on Your Grace's Character : Dedicators, Your Grace very well knows, are great Dealers in that Way ; and look on it as one of the Privileges of their Place, to praife their Patrons without Offence. Accordingly, Your Grace's Lineage would have been traced up to the earlieft Times, and the Virtues of Your Noble Anceftors drawn out to View. Your Grace's perfonal Merit, mining and confpicuous as it is, would have been fet off in it's full Light, and Your Heroick and Virtuous Atchievements painted in all their Colours. Flanders, Bavaria, Spain, and Scot/ana 1 , would have been called in, as Witneffes of Your Glory ; of Your Prudence, as a General ; and Your Bravery, as a Soldier : Nor would Your Integrity, as a Minifter ; Your Mag- nificence, as a Nobleman ; or Your Love of Liberty and Your Country, as a Pa- triot, have been omitted. For myfelf, My Lord, it is my Bufinefs rather to ad- mire than applaud You : Panegyrick is a thing out of my Province ; and Your Grace would be a fufferer by the beft Things I could fay. Were I allowed to touch on any Thing, it fhould be Your Private rather than Your Popular Cha- racter, rather as you are a Gentleman, than as a General, or a Hero. If You

have



The Dedication.

have every thing Great and Heroick in the latter j You have all that is Beautiful
and Amiable in the former. To enumerate every thing of this Kind vifible in your
Grace, would be to give a detail of a whole Syftem of Virtues j and to draw your
Picture at full, would be little less than to collect into one Piece what is Great and
Good in a thoufand : A Work fitter for a Volume than a Dedication.

M Y Zeal for Your Grace had like to have driven me beyond either my Duty or Design. It was my Refolution not to fay any thing that might look like Praife ; but I find one cannot do common Juftice to Your Grace, without running into the Appearance of it. I am fenfible there is no Topick less inoffenfive to You, than that of Your own Merit : but the Misfortune is, there is none so engaging or so copious. 'Tis pity You mould value Praife so little ; when You deferve it so much : For hence, a Perfon, who would not be Ungrateful, is under a Neceflity of be- coming Troublefome. I have reason to fear Your Grace's Refentments, for hav- ing said thus much ; and yet apprehend those of the Publick for having laid no more. If I am Delinquent on either Side, Your Grace will do me the Juftice, to believe it entirely owing to that Excefs of Devotion wherewith I am,



My Lord,



Tour Graces most Humble,



and most Obedient Servant,



Edmund Stone.

The Translator's Preface

ATHEMATICKS are now become a popular Study, and make a part of the Education of almost every Gentleman. Indeed, they are so useful, so entertaining and extenfive a Branch of Know- ledge, that it is no wonder they Jhould gain Ground ; and that un- common Countenance they now find, mufl be ejleemed as an Injlance of the Felicity of the Age, and the good Senfe of the People. Mathe- maticks have wherewith to gratify all Tafies, and to employ all Ta- lents. Here the greatejl Genius has room to exert his utmost Faculties, and the meanefi will not fail to find fomething on a Level with his. Their Theory, affords a noble Field for the Speculative Part of Mankind j and, their Practice, an ample Province for the Men of Action and Bufinefs.

THE Majlers in Mathematicks have not been wanting in their Rejpect to the Rest of Mankind : They have frankly communicated their Knowledge to the World; and have publijhed Treatifes on every Branch of their Art : Infomuch, that a Man who has a Difpofition to this Study, will find himfelf abundantly fupplied with Helps, to what Part foever he applies himfelf There feems, then, but little wanting to Mathematicks, confidered as a Science : If there be any Defect, it is when confidered as an Art. 1 mean, Mathematicks appears more acceffible, as well as more extenfive, on the Side of their Theory than on that of their Practice. Not that the latter has been less laboured by Authors than the fo?'mer, but because a fufficient Regard does not feem to have been had to the Instruments, whereon it wholly depends.

Mathematical Instruments are the Means by which those Sciences are rendered useful in the Affairs of Life. By their AJJifiance it is, that fubtile and abstract Speculation is reduced into Act. They connect, as it were, the Theory to the Practice, and turn what was bare Contemplation, to the mofi fubfiantial Uses. The Knowledge of these is the Knowledge of Practical Mathematicks : So that the De- fcripttons and Uses of Mathematical Instruments, make, perhaps, one of the mqft ferviceable Branches of Learning in the World. The Way then to render the Knowledge of Mathematicks general and diffufive, is by making that of Mathematical Inftru- ments so : With a View of which kind, our Author feems to have engaged in the follow-

[ a ] ing



VI



The Translator's PREFACE.

ing Traitife -, at least, it was from a View of this kind, that I undertook to trahftate
it.

T HE Design of the Work, however ufiful, yet feems to be New among us. Parti-
cular Authors have indeed touched on particular Parts : One, for Inftance, having de-
scribed the Globe j another the Sector ; and a third the Quadrant : but for a general
Courfe, or Collection of Mathematical Instruments, / know of none that has attempted
it. It is true, in Harris'* Lexicon, we have the Names of most of them ; and in Moxon'5 Dictionary the Figures of many : But the Accounts given of them in both are so port, lame, and deficient, that there is but little to be learned from either of them.

I chofe M. BIO N'i Book for the Ground-Work of mine, as judging it better to make use of a good fafe Model provided to my Hands, than run the Rifque of pro- ceeding upon my own Bottom. The French Instruments defcribed by him, are, in the main, the fame with those used among us. Such Englifh Instruments as he has omitted, I have been careful to fupply : And throughout, have taken the Liberty not only to make up his Deficiencies, but amend his Errors.

THOSE who deftre an Inventory of the Work, have it as follows :

IT is divided into Eight Books, and each of these fub divided into Chapters. To the whole are prefixed Preliminary Definitions neceffary for the underftanding of what follows.

IN the First Book are laid down the Construction and Principal TJfes of the most Jimple and common Instruments, as CompafTes, Ruler, Drawing- Pen, Porte-Craion, Square, Protractor. And to these I have added five other Articles, of the Carpenter's Joint-Rule, the Four-foot Gauging-Rod, Everard'j Sliding-Rule, CoggefliaU'i Slid— ing-Rule, the Plotting-Scale, an improved Protractor, the Plain-Scale, and Gunter'j Scale.

THE Second Book contains the Construction and Principal Uses of the French Sector, (or Compass of Proportion) those of various Gauging-Rods. To this Book I have added the Construction and principal Uses of the Englifh Sector.

THE Subject of the Third Book is very much diverfified. Under this are found the Construction and Uses of fever al curious and diverting as well as useful Instruments ; particularly CompafTes of various kinds, Parallel-Rules, the Parallelogram or Penta- graph, &c. Under this Head are also laid down several Things not eafily to be met with elsewhere : As, the Manner of arming Load-Stones ; the Composition of divers Microfcopes, with several other curious Amufements. To the first Chapter of this Book I have added the Defcriptions and Uses of the Turn-up CompafTes and Proportional CompafTes, with the Seftor-Lines upon them, as also the Manner of projecting them,

IN the Fourth Book you have the Construction and Uses of the principal Instruments used in taking Plots, measuring or laying out Lands, taking Heights, Distances, accef- fible or inacceftible ; Staffs, for inftance, Fathoms [or Toifes], Chains, Surveying- CrofTes, Recipient- Angles, Theodolites, Semi-Circles, the Compass, with their Uses in Fortification. To this Book I have added three Articles of the Englifh Theodolite, Plain-Table, Circumferentor, and Surveying- Wheel. What I have there added of the Uses of those Instruments, though but Short, yet I flatter my f elf will be fowid more Iiftruclive than much larger Accounts of them in the common Books of Surveying.

THE Fifth Book contains the Construction of several different kinds of Water-Levels ; with the Manner of reel if y ing and using them, for the Conveyance of Water from one Place to another. In this Book are also found the Construction a?id Uses of Instruments for Gunnery ; And to these I have added the Construction and Use of the Englifh Cal- lipers.

IN



The Translator's PREFACE, vii

IN the Sixth Book are contained the Conjlrutfiotl and Uses of Aftronomical Infiru- ments j as the Aftronomical Quadrant, and Micrometer, with an Instrument of Mr tie la Hire'* for J hewing the Eclipfes of the Sun and Moon, and Mr Huygens'j Second Pendulum-Clock for Aftronomical Obfervations. In this is also Jloewn the Manner of making Celejiial Obfervations according to Mr de la Hire and Caffini. To this Book I have added four Chapters, containing the Defcription and general Uses of the Globes, with the manner of making them : The Defcription and Uses of the Ptole- maick and a Cdpernican Sphere, the Orrery, and a Micrometer, better than that de- fcribed by the Author, and of Gunter'j Quadrant.

THE Seventh Book contains the ConJlruSlion and Uses of the Sea-Compass, the Azimuth-Compass, Sea-Quadrant, Fore-Staff, and other Instrument s for taking Alti- tudes at Sea ; as likewise the Conjlruclion and Uses of the Sinical-Quadrant, and Mer- catorV Charts.

IN the Eighth Book are found the Conjlrudlions and Uses of all kinds o/* Sun-Dials, whether fixed or portable -, with the Instrument s used in drawing them ; as also a Moon-Dial, Nocturnal, &c. To this is fubjoined a Short Defcription of the principal Tools used in making Mathematical Instruments : And, lajllyj I have added, byway of Ap- pendix, the Conjlruclion of the great Eclipfe of the Sun, that will happen May the i ith,

Definitions necessary for underflanding this Treatife.

^MPOl N T is that which hath no Parts, and confequently is indivifible.
A Line is Length without Breadth, whose Original is from a
Point

There are three kinds of Lines ; viz*. Right Lines, Curve Lines,
and Mixed Lines.

A Right Line is the fhorteft of all those that can be drawn from
one Point to another.

A Curve Line is that which doth not go directly from one of its
Extremes to the other, but winds about.

A Mixed Line is that which hath one Part ftrait, and the other
crooked.

Lines compared as to their Pofitions or Situations, are either parallel, perpendicular, or
oblique.

Parallel Lines are such that always keep the fame Distance to each other, and which, if
both ways infinitely produced, will never meet, whether they be Right Lines, or Curves.

Perpendicular Lines are those that meeting, incline no more to one side than to the other ;
and therefore they make two equal Angles, which coufequently will be Right Angles.

Oblique Lines are those, which meeting one another, form oblique and unequal Angles,
that is, acute and obtuse Angles.

Moreover, Lines have other Denominations ; which are as follow :

An upright, plumb, or vertical Line, is that which, if produced, would pass through the
Center of the Earth, as the String of a fufpended Plummet.

A horizontal Line, or Line of apparent Level, is a right Line that touches the Surface of
the Earth in one Point, or which isparallel to a Tangent in that Point.

A Line of true Level is that, whose Points are all equally distant from the Center of the
Earth, as the Circumference of the fame.
A finite Line is that whose Length is determined.

B There


There are also occult Lines, drawn with the Points of Com pedes, or more properly with a Pencil, because then they may be eafier rubbed out: Thefe Lines mult not be feen when the Work is finifhed, unlefs they are left to mow how the Operation is performed ; and then they are dotted, which is done with a .Dotting- Wheel. Fig. io. The Lines that mufb remain, and which are called apparent Lines, are drawn with Ink, put into a drawing Pen, as plain and small as poffible, by means of the Screw belonging to it.

A Tangent is a Line touching a Figure, and not cutting it •, as the Line A B.

A Subtenfe, or chord Line, is that which joins the Extremes of an Arc •, as the Line C D.

An Arc is a Part of a Circumference ; as t\\t Arc D F E.

The different kinds of Curve Lines are infinite ; but the fimpleft, mod regular, and tafiefl to draw, is a Circle.

A circular Line, or the Circumference of a Circle, is a Curve •, all the Parts of which are equally distant from one Point in the middle of it, which is called the Center of the Circle.

Ri«-ht Lines, drawn from the Center of a Circle to the Circumfererence, are called Radii,
or Semidiameters •, as N O.

Those Chords that pass through the Center of a Circle, are called Diameters ; as M P.
The Circumference of every Circle is supposed to be divided .into 360 equal Parts, called

Degrees.

The Number 360 was chosen by Geometricians for the Division of a Circle, because it may be more exactly fubdivided into many equal Parts, without any Remainder, than any other* : as for example s half of 360 is 180, ^ is 120, ~ is 90, \ is 72, 4 is 6o, and so of other of its aliquot Parts.

Every Degree is divided into 60 equal Parts, called Minutes, every Minute into 60 Se- conds, and every Second into 60 Thirds, &c. which are thus distinguished 40 s 3.5' 49" 57"' fignify forty Degrees, thirty-five Minutes, forty-nine Seconds, and fifty- seven Thirds. The aforsaid Division ferves for measuring of Angles \ but the Sub-Divisions into Seconds and Thirds are not used, unlefs in great Circumferences.

The Opening of two different Lines cutting one another, or meeting in the fame Point,
is called an Angle,
fig. 12. When two Lines cut, or meet each other in one Point on a Plane, the Angle they make

with each other, is called a plane-Angle, or a plain- Angle.

When the Lines that make a plain-Angle, are ftrait Lines, the Angle is called a Right-
lined Angle.
Fig. 13. If the two Lines forming an Angle, are Curves, the Angle is called a Curve-lined Angle.

Fig. 14. If one of the Lines is a Curve, and the other a ftrait Line, the Angle is called a Mixed-

lined Angle.

The two Lines that make an Angle, are called its Sides ; the Point wherein they cut or
meet each other, being the Vertex.

When an Angle is exprelTed by three Letters, that in the middle reprefents the Angle, and
the other two the Sides.

In producing or leffening the Sides of an Angle, the Quantity of the said Angle is not at all
altered thereby -, for the Magnitude of an A ngle is not measured by the Magnitude of its Sides.

The Meafure of a Right-lined Angle is the Portion of a Circle comprehended between
its Sides, whose Vertex is the Center of "the Circle : It matters not how big the Radius of
Fig. 15. the Circle be •, because whether the circular Arcs, comprehended between the Sides A B,

A C, of the Angle be bigger or leffer, they ftill have the fame Number of Degrees.

If, for example, the Arc of a small Circle be 60 Degrees, which is the fixth part of the
whole Circumference, the Arc of a greater Circle will likewise be 60 Degrees, or the fixth
part of the Circumference of the greater Circle, and the Angle B A C will be 60 Degrees.

Every Angle is either a right, acute, or obtuse Angle,
pjg ,5, The Meafure of a right Angle is an Arc of 90 Degrees, which is l of the Circumference

of a Circle.
Fig. 17. An acute Angle is leffer than 90 Degrees.

pi„ l8&lt; An obtuse Angle is more than 90 Degrees.

There can be no Angle of 180 Degrees, which is the Semi-Circumference of a Circle ;
for two right Lines so pofited, cannot cut, but will meeat each other directly, and confe-
quently will make but one right Line, which will be the Diameter of a Circle,
pj- , ,. The Sine of an Angle or Arc, is half the Chord of double the fame Arc : as for example,

to have the Sine of the Angle DAE, or of the Arc D E (which is the Meafure of it) by
doubling the Arc E D, you will have the Arc E D F, whose Chord is E F, whereof E H, its
half, is the right Sine of the Angle DAE: the Line DG is the Tangent of the fame Angle,
and the Line A G is its Secant.

Two Arcs together making a whole Circle, have the fame Chord ; for it is maniftfr,
that the Line EF is as well the Chord of the greater Arc EBCF, as of the lelftr
oneEDF.

* Our Author Jhould have said, Leffer Number,

For



under/landing this Treatife.



For the fame reason two Arcs, which together make a Semicircle, have but ohe right
Sine; as the Line E H is as well the Sine of the obtuse Angle E A I, or of the Arc E B 1,
which is its Meafure, as of the acute Angle E A D, or of the Arc E D.
The fame may be said of Tangents and Secants.

The Sine of 90 Degrees, which is the Radius or Semidiameter, as D A, is called the
Sinus Totus.

A Surface, or Superficies, is that which hath only Length and Breadth.
There are two kinds of Surfaces, viz. Plane and Curve.

A Plane Surface is that to which a right Line may be applied all manner of ways ; as the Fig. 19.
Top of a very fmooth Table.

A Curve Surface is that to which a right Line cannot be applied all manner of ways j Fig. 20,
they are either Convex, or Concave •, as the Outfide of a Shell is Convex, and the Infide
Concave.

Term, or Bound, is that which limits any thing -, as Points are the Bounds of Lines, Lines
the Bouncis of Surfaces, and Surfaces the Bounds of Solids.
A Figure is that which is bounded every way.

Figures that be terminated under only one Bound, are Circles, and Ellipfes, or Ovals,
which are bounded by only one Curve Line.

Figures terminated by several Bounds, or Lines, are the Triangle or Trigon, which hath Fig. 21.
three Sides and three Angles.

The Square, or Tetragon, which hath four. Fig. 22.

The Pentagon, five. Fi g . 23 .

The Hexagon, fix. Fig . 2+ .

The Heptagon, seven.
The Octagon, eight.
The Nonagon, nine.
The Decagon, ten.
The Undecagon, eleven.
And the Dodecagon, twelve.

All the aforsaid Figures, and those having a greater Number of Sides : are called by the general Name of Polygon, which signifies Figures having many Angles •, and for distinguish- ing them, there is added the Number of Sides : as a Decagon may be called a Polygon of ten Sides ; likewise a Dodecagon is called a Polygon of twelve Sides, and so of others.

Figures, whose Sides and Angles are equal (as those before-named) are called regular Polygons.

Those Figures, whose Sides and Angles are unequal, are called Irregular Polygons.

Triangles are distinguished by their Sides or their Angles.

As to their Sides •, that Triangle which hath its three Sides equal, is called an Equilateral p,g t ^
Triangle, and is also equiangular.

That Triangle which hath only two equal Sides, is called an Ifofceles Triangle.

And that which hath three unequal Sides, is called a Scalene Triangle. As to their An- gles •, a Triangle, which hath one right Angle, is called right-angled ; and the Side op- polite to the right Angle, is called the Hypothenufe.

That which hath one Angle obtuse, is called an obtuse angled Triangle. That which harh all the Angles acute, is called an acute angled Triangle. Quadrilateral Figures, or Figures having four Sides, have different Appellations. It the opposite Sides are parallel, the quadrilateral Figure is called by the general name of Para'Ulogram.

If a Parallelogram hath four equal Sides, and the four Angles rjght ones, it is called a Fig. 31.
Square.

If all the Sides are not equal, but the four Angles right ones, it is called an oblong, right Fig. 32.
angled Parallelogram, or fimply a Rectangle.

A right Line drawn in a Parallelogram, from one of the Angles to the opposite one, is
called a Diagonal ; as the Line AJ3.

If the four Sides be equal, and also the opposite Angles, but not right ones, it is called a Fig. 33.
Rhombus, or Lozange.

If two opposite of the four Sides are equal, and the opposite Angles also equal, but not
right ones, the quadrilateral Figure is called a Rhomboides. Fig. 34.

Also a Square is equiangular and equilateral ; an Oblong is equiangular, but not equila-
teral ; a Rhombus is equilateral, but not equiangular :
And a Rhombodies is neither equilateral nor equiangular.

Every quadrilateral Figure, that hath neither its Oppofite Sides, Parallel, or Equal, is Fig. 35.
called a Trapezium.

A Circle is a plane Figure, comprehended under one Line, which is called its Circumfe- Fig. 36.
rence, which is equally distant from a Point in the middle, called the Center.

A Semicircle is a Figure terminated by the Diameter and the Semicircumference. Pi gi 37#

A Portion, or Segment of a Circle, isa Figure comprehended by a part of the Circumfe-
rence, and a Chord leffer than the Diameter j there is a greater and letter Segment.

A Sector

A Softer of a Circle is a Figure made by apart of a Circle, terminated by two Radii, or Semidiameters, which do not make a right Line •, there is a great and imall Sector.

An Ellipfis is a Figure longer than it is broad, comprehended but by one Curve Line, in which the * two greateft Lines that can be drawn at right Angles to one another, are called the Axes of the Ellipfis •, the greateft of which is called the great Axis, and the leficr the lead Axis.

The Center of an Ellipfis is that Point wherein the two Axes cut each other.

Thole Figures that have the lame Center, are called Concentrick Figures.

Excentrick Figures are those that have not the fame Center.

Similar Figures are those which have their Angles equal each to each ; that is, which have each Angle of one Figure equal to the correspondent Angle in the other Figure, and have the Sides about the equal Angles proportional. As suppose the Side a b is one half, or one third of the Side A B ; then all the other Sides of the lefTcr Figure abed, will be likewise one half, or one third of the Sides of the greater Figure ABCD.

The correfpondent Sides in this Figure are calied homologous Sides •, as the Side A B of the greater Figure, and the Side a b of the lefler Figure, are called homologous Sides.

Equal Figures are those that equally contain an equal Number of equal Quantities.

There are Figures that are fimiliar and equal.

Others are equal, and not similar \

And, finally, others are similar, but not equal.

Ifoperimetrical Figures are those whose Circuits are equal : As, for Example, the Trian- gle ABC, and the Square ABCD, are Ifoperimetrical Figures •, becatife each Side of the Triangle being 8, its Circuit is 24, and every Side of the Square being 6, its Circuit is also 24 of those equal Parts that make the Circuit of the Triangle.

Body, or a Solid, is that which hath Length, Breadth, and Thicknefs.

A Sphere, Globe, or Ball, is made by the entire Revolution of a Semicircle about its Diameter, which is at Rest, and which is called the Sphere's Axis.

A Spheroid is a Solid, made by the entire Revolution of a Semi-Ellipfis about its Axis re- maining at Rest.

A Pyramid is a Solid contained under Several Triangular Planes meeting in one Point, and having a Polygon for its Base.

A Cone is a Species of a Pyramid, having a circular Base : This Solid is made by the entire Revolution of a right-angled Triangle about one of the Sides, forming the right Angle, which Side is called the Axis of the Cone.

A Cylinder is a Solid, whose Bases are two equal Circles. This Solid is generated by the
entire Revolution of a right angled Parallelogram about one of its Sides, which is called
the Cylinder's Axis.

A Prifm is a Solid, whose two Bases are two similar, equal, and parallel Planes ; and when
the parallel Planes are Triangles, the Prifm is called a Triangular Prifm.

When the two Bases of a Prifm are Parallelograms, it is called a Parallelepipedon.

If the Sides of the aforsaid Bodies are perpendicular to the Base, they are called right, or Ifofceles Solids.

If they are inclined, they are called Oblique, or Scalenous Solids.

A regular Body is that which is contained under regular and equal Figures, all the solid Angles of which are likewise equal.

A solid Angle is the meeting of several Planes in one Point ; as the Point of a Diamond.

There are required more than two Planes to conftitute a solid Angle.

There are five regular Bodies reprefented in the fame Plate, together with the Unfoldings of their Planes, viz.

The Tetrahedron, contained under four equal and equilateral Triangles.

The Hexahedron, or Cube, contained under fix equal Squares.

The Octahedron is contained under eight equal and equilateral Triangles.

The Dodecahedron, contained under twelve equilateral and equal Pentagons.

The Icofahedron, contained under twenty equal and equilateral Triangles.

The Unfoldings nigh to each of the aforenamed regular Bodies, fhew how to draw them on Brass or Pafteboard, in order to cut them out ; which when done, if they are duly folded up, there will be formed the regular Bodies.

All other Solids are called by the general Name of Polyhedron, which Signifies a Body terminated by many Superficies.

If in the following Work, Terms be used that are not here defined, they shall be defined and explained in their proper Places.

* Our Author fhould havt said, the greateft and least Lines. tther of mint in tie Apptndix that I have added.

O/* //&£ ConflruSiion and Use of Mathematical Inftru-
ments $ containing the common Instruments, as Com-
pares, the Ruler, the Drawing-Pen, the Porte-Craion
or Pencil-Holder, the Square, and the Protractor.







CHAP. I.

Of the Conflru&ion and Use of the CompafTes, the Ruler, the Drawing-
Pen, and the Porte-Craion or Pencil-holder.

HERE are several Sorts of Compafles, of which we shall fpeak more fully hereafter ; but that whose Uses we intend to lay down in this Chap- ter, is the common Pair of Compafifes. Of these Compafles there are two kinds, viz. Simple Ones, which have their Points fixed, and others whose Points may be taken off; both kinds being of different Bigneffes, but they are commonly in Length from three to fix Inches. To these Compafles, that fhift their Points, there belongs a Drawing- Pen-Point, a Pencil-Point, and fometimes a Dotting- Wheel, to make dotted Lines. The Goodnefs of Compafles confifts chiefly in this, That the Motion of their Head be very equable, that so they may not leap in opening and fliutting i that the Joints be well fitted ; that they are well filed and polifhed -, and, lastly, that the Steel-Points are well joined and equal. The Figure A fheweth these kinds of Compafles, whose Conftruction we Fig. A. Ihall give in the third Book.

Rulers, which are of Brass, or Wood, ought to be very flrait every way ; they are made Fig B. ftrait with Files and a Planner, whose Bottom is Steel ; as also by rubbing them and another very ftrait Ruler together : one Side of these Rulers is floped, to keep the Ink from blot- ting the Paper.

When Lines are drawn with Ink, they ought to be very fine.

To know whether a Ruler be very ftrait or not, draw a right Line upon a Plane ; then turn the Ruler about, and apply the fame Edge to the Line ; and if the Edge of the Ruler cxaclly agrees with the right Line, it is a Sign the Ruler is very ftrait.

The Drawing-Pen is made of two Steel Blades joined together, and fattened to a little Pillar, at the other End of which is a Porte-Craion •, there is a Cavity between the aforsaid Fig. C. Blades, in which Ink is put with a Pen : also the Blades must join each other in Points that be very equal. There is likewise a small Screw, ferving more or less to open the Blades, that so Lines may be drawn fine or coarfe, according to neceflity.

The Porte-Craion ought to be of equal Bignefs every where, and very ftraitly flit down the middle with a fine Saw ; also the Porte-Craion is bent towards the- end, in order to fallen a Pencil in it, by means of a little Ring.

C USE



6 Of the Confiruciion and Use Book I.

USE I. To divide a right Line into two equal Parts.

pr , J .a the given Line be A B, which is to be divided into two equal Parts: About the

Point A, as a Center, or one of the Ends of the Line, defcribe the circular Arc C D, with

' Z ' your Compasses opened to any Distance, but neverthelefs greater than one half of A B. Like

wife about the other end B, as a Center, defcribe, with the fame Opening of your Com-
pares, the circular Arc E F, cutting the former Arc in the Points G H ; then place a Ruler
upon these two Interferons, and draw the Line G H, which will divide the Line AB into
two equal Parts.

Note, The two Arcs will not interfeft each other, if the Opening of the Compasses be not
greater than half of the given Line.

USE II. Upon a right Line, and from a Point give in it, to raife a Perpendicular.

Pj z Let the given right Line be A B, and the Point given in it C, upon which it is required

to raife a Perpendicular.

From the given Point C, mark both ways with your Compasses, on the given Line, the
equal Distances C A, CB; then about the Points A 13, as Centers, and with any opening of
your Compaifes' (greater than half the given Line) defcribe the Arcs D E, FG, interacting
each other in the Point H, and draw the Line HC, which will be perpendicular to A B.

i'ig. 3. If the given Point C be at the End of the Line, defcribe about the Point C, as a Centre,

any Arc of a Circle-, on which take twice the fame opening of your Compafles, viz. from
B to D, and from D to E : then about the Points D, E, defcribe two Arcs, interfering one
another in the Point F •, lay a Ruler upon the Points F and C, and draw the Line F C,
which will be a Perpendicular upon the End of the Line CB.

If there is not room to take the Length of D E, divide the Arc B D in two equal Parts
in the Point G, and make D H equal toDG; then the Line FI C will be a Perpendicular.

;..-j„ 4. Or otherwise, having drawn the indefinite Line B D F, through the Points D, F, and

made D F equal to B D •, F C will be a Perpendicular.

Flcy Or again in this Manner : having taken the Point P at pleafure above the given Line,

about the said Point, as a Center •, and with the Interval P C, defcribe the Arc BCD, then
draw the Line BP, and produce it 'till it cuts the aforsaid'Arc in the Point D, and from
the Point D to the Point C, draw the Perpendicular D C.

USE III. From a Point given without a Line, to let fall a Perpendicular to the /aid Line.

Let the given Point be C, from which, to the given Line A B, it is required to draw a
Perpendicular.
Fig. 6. About the Point C, as a Center, defcribe an Arc of a Circle cutting the Line A B in the

two Points D E ; then from the Points D E, make the Interferon F •, lay a Ruler upon the
Points C and F, and draw the Perpendicular C G.

Note, The Interferon F may be made above or below the given Line ; but it is bed to
have it below it ; because when the Points C F are at a good Distance, the Perpendicular
may be drawn truer than when they are nigh.

When the Portion of the Circle defenbed about the Point C, does not cut the Line A B in two Points, the Line must be continued if it can ; if it cannot, Recourfe must be had to the Method of Fig. 5. for raifing a Perpendicular on the End of a Line : as suppose a Perpen- dicular is to be let fall from the Point D, on the Line CD, draw, at pleafure, the Line D B, which bifect in the Point P ; then about this Point, as a Centre,- and with the Distance PD, defcribe the Arc DCB, cutting the Line AB in the Point C. Laftly, lay a Ruler upon the Points C and D, and draw the Line C D, which will be the Perpendicular required. Fig. 7. Otherwife, let A B be the given Line, and C the Point without it \ take two Points 1

and 2 at pleafure, on the the said Line A B •, then about the Points 1 and 2, and with the Distances 1 C, 2 C, defcribe Arcs of Circles, interfering each other in two Points, as in C and D ; then lay a Ruler on the two Interferons, and draw a Line, which will be the Perpendicular required.

USE IV. To cut a right-lined Angle into two equal Parts.

Let A C B be the Angle to be cut into two equal Parts.
p,„ g About the Point C, as a Center, defcribe the Arc DE at pleafure; then about the Points

D and E, defcribe two other Arcs, cutting each other in the Point F, and draw the Line F C
through the Points F, C, which will cut the given Angle into two equal Parts.

If it be required to divide the Angle A CB into three equal Parts, the Arc D E must ten-
tatively be divided by your Compasses into three equal Parts* ; because the Triferion of an
Angle by right Lines, hath not yet been geometrically found.

USE



* Our Author fhould have said here, because the Trifeclion of an Angle cannot be geometrically performed by
right Lines or Circles either. See more particularly how to do thi-j in the Appendix.



Chap. i. of the Compasses , the Ruler , &c. 7

U S E V. To raife a right Line on a given Line, that may incline no more on

one Side than the other.

Make the fame Operation as before, and produce the Line F C G. Fig. 8.

USE VI. Upon a given right Line, and from a Point given in it, to make

an Angle equal to a given Angle.

Let A B be the given Line, and A the given Point upon which it is required to make an
Angle equal to the given Angle E F G.

About the Point F, as a Center, defcribe the Portion of a Circle; and with the fame Fig 9,
opening of your Compasses, defcribe about the Point A another Portion ; then take the Big-
ntfs of the Arc E G between your Compasses, which Distance lay off on the Arc B C : now
through the Points A, C, draw the Line A C, and the Angle B A C will be equal to the Angle
EFG.

USE VII. To draw a Line from a given Point, parallel to a given Line.

Let A B be the given Line, and C the Point through which it is required to draw a Line
parallel to A B.

About the Point C, as a Center, and with any opening of your Compasses, taken at plea-
fure, defcribe the Arc D B cutting the given Line in the Point B : also about the fame Pojnt Fig- i°.
B, as a Center, and with the fame opening of your Compasses, defcribe the Arc C A •, then
take the Distance of the Points C, A, and lay it off from B to D, and through the Points
C and D, draw the Line CD, which Will be parallel to A B.

Otherwife, about the Point C, as a Center, defcribe an Arc touching the given Line •,
and about another Point, taken at pleafure in the Line A B, defcribe, with the fame opening Fig. 11.
of your Compasses, the Arc D : then through the Point C, draw a Line touching the Arc D,
and the Line C D will be parallel to A B.

But as it is difficult to find whereabouts the Point of Contact will be, there is another way
which is better, and is thus : ■»

About the Point C, as a Center, and with any Distance, defcribe an Arc cutting the Line Fig 12.
A Bin A.

And about another Point in the fame Line, as B, defcribe another Arc, with the fame
opening of your Compasses ; then open the Compasses to the Distance A B, and about the
Point C, as a Center, defcribe an Arc cutting the former one in the Point D •, and through
the Points C and D draw a Line, which will be parallel to A B.

USE VIII. To divide a given Line into any number of equal Parts.

Let the Line given be A B, which is required to be divided into eight equal Parts : firfl, Fig. J 3- draw the Line B C, at pleafure, making any Angle with the Line A B. Likewise draw the Line A D parallel toBC; then divide B C into eight equal Parts, taken at pleafure, and make the fame Parts on the Line A D, and through the Divisions of them, draw Lines, which will divide the Line A B into eight equal Parts.

Or otherwise, draw the Line a b parallel to A B, which is proposed to be divided; then Fig. 14. take 8 equal Parts on the Line ab. Now through the Ends of the two Parallels draw two Lines, which form Triangles with the Parallels, and interfect each other in the Point C ; then from the Point C, draw Lines to the Divisions made on the Line a b, which will cut the Line AB in the Number of equal Parts required.

This Division of Lines ferves to make Diagonal Scales •, as suppose the Line A B is to make a Scale of eighty Parts, or eighty Fathom ; each Part of this Line, divided into eight, Fig. ;;, contains ten Fathom: but since it is difficult to divide each of the aforsaid Parts into ten others, you must raife from the Ends of the Line A B, the Perpendiculars AD and B C, on which take ten Parts at pleafure ; from every of which, you must draw Parallels to the Line A B ; then the fame Divisions must be made on the Line DC, as on A B ; and the tranf- verfal Lines A E, 10 F, 20 G, &c. must be drawn.

Now it is eafy to take off any Number of Fathoms from this Scale: as, for Example, to take off 23 Fathoms •, Take the Concourfe of the Tranfverfal 20 G, with the Parallel 3, that is at the Point Z, and Z 3 will be 23 Fathom. Moreover, if 58 Fathom is required, take the Concourfe of the Tranfverfal 50 H, with the Parallel 8, which is Y, and Y 8 will repre- ftnt 58 Fathom, and so of others. Feet might be put upon this Scale, by making a greater Distance between the Parallels; and by fub-dividing them into 12 equal Parts, there would be obtained Inches.

But now to divide a very fhort Line into a great Number of equal Parts, as into 100 or 1000: For Example; Suppose the Line A D is to be divided into 1000 equal Parts ; first, Fig. 16. from the Ends A D, raife the Perpendiculars A B, DC, and divide each of these Perpendi- culars into 10 equal Parts, and draw through the Divisions the like Number of Parallels to A D; then divide e?.ch of the Lines A D, BC, into 10 equal Parts, which join by the like Num- ber of Perpendiculars. Again, fubdivide the first Space A E, and it's Parallel, into 10 more Parts, which join by transversal or oblique Lines, as the Line E 1, &c.

By



8 Of the ConjlruEiion and Use Book I.

By this Means the first Interval AE, will be divided into 100 equal Parts ;, for which Rea-
fon, the Numbers 200, 300, 400, 500, &c. to 1000, are placed on this Scale, as may be
ken in Fig. 16.

The Manner of taking off any Number of equal Parts from the aforsaid Scale, is the fame as that which hath been already fhewn in the precedent Figure. We mall again men- tion this Scale in the Chapter of the Sector. There are also Sines, Tangents, and Secants, projected upon Scales, in the following Manner: If from each Degree of the Quadrant I F, beo-innin^ from the Point I, Perpendiculars are let fall to the Radius A I, these will be the Sines of each Degree, the greateft of which is the Radius of the Circle, or Sinus Totus A F 5 and the Lengths of all these Sines may be projected upon the Radius, in order to make a Scale, beginning from the Point A-, as the Sine DK is laid off from A towards G, csV.

And if the Tangent I E, be indefinitely produced towards E, and from the Center A, Fig. 1 7. Lines, as A E, be drawn through each Degree of the Quadrant, to the Tangent I E produced,

these will be the Secants of each Degree of the Quadrant. Whence it is manifelf, that any one of the Secants is greater than the Radius A I. It is likewise plain, that every Tangent I E, is terminated by it's Secant A E, in the Line I E, which will be a Scale of Tangents : and it is in this manner, that the fimple Scales of Sines, Tangents, and Secants, are made in takino- between your Compasses each of those Distances, and laying them off upon a Ruler. The Tables of Sines, Tangents, and Secants, are likewise made on this Principle : for the Radius of a Circle, or Sine of a right Angle, is supposed to be divided into 10000, and then there is found how many of these Parts every right Sine contains ; as also the Tangents and Secants from one Minute to 90 Degrees ; which, when put in order, are called the Tables of Sines, Tangents, and Secants.

Logarithms are Numbers in an Arithmetical Progreffion, to which anfwer other Numbers in a Geometrical Progreffion, as the two following Progreffions.

Prog. Geom. Numb. 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, &c.

Prog. Arith. Log. o, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, &c. Logarithms were invented to perform Multiplication by only the help of Addition, and Division by Subtraction •, by which Operations are infinitely fhortened, and so they are of excellent Use in Agronomical Calculations.

Note., The Use of these Tables is explained in Books of the Tables of Sines, Tangents, and Secants.

USE IX. To cut off from a given Line any Part ajfgned.

Let the Line A B be the given Line from which it is required to cut off the fourth Part.
Fig. 18. Draw the indefinite Line AC, making any Angle with the Line A B, which divide into

four equal Parts at pleafure •, then from the Jaft Division, draw the Line B 4, and afterwards
the Line D I, parallel to B 4, which will be a fourth Part of A B.

U S E X. To draw a right Line through a given Point, that Jhall touch a Circle.

If the given Point be in the Circumference, draw the Radius A B, and on the Point B raife the Perpendicular B C, which will be a Tangent in the Point B. But if the given /'ig. 19.&20. Point B be without the Circle, draw a right Line from the Center A, to the PoinfB, which bifect in the Point D : then about the said Point D, as a Center, and with the Distance B D, defcribe a Semi-Circle cutting the Circle in the Point E, and draw B E, which will be a Tangent.

If a Circle be given with it's Tangent, and the Point of Contact be required, let fall the Perpendicular A B from the Center of the Circle, and the Interferon of the Tangent with the said Perpendicular, will be in the Point of Contract.

USE XI. Upon a given Line to defcribe a Spiral, making any Number of Revolutions.

Let the given Line be A B, upon which it is required to defcribe a Spiral of 3 Revolutions. First, bifect that Line in the Point C, about which Point, as a Center, defcribe a Semi- Circle, whose Diameter may be equal to the given Line A B; then trifect the Semi-Diame- Fig. zi, ter A C in the Points DE, and about the fame Center defcribe, on the fame Side the Line

A B, two other Semi-Circles passing through the Points D E : again, fubdivide the Space C E, into two equal Parts in the Point F ; about which, as a Center, defcribe on the other Side of the given Line, three other Semi-Circles, and a Spiral of three Revolutions will be had. If the Spiral is required to make four Revolutions, you must divide the Semi-Diameter A C into 4 equal Parts *.

USE XII. Num. I. Upon a given right Line, to defcribe an equilateral Triangle.

Let A B be the given Line on which it is required to defcribe an equilateral Triangle. Fig. 22. About the Point A, and with the Distance A B, defcribe an Arc of a Circle; and about the Point B, as a Center, with the Distance B A, defcribe another Arc cutting the precedent one in the Point C ; then draw the Lines C A, C B ; and the Triangle ABC, will be an equilateral Triangle.

USE

* Although this is called a Spiral, yet in reality, it is only fever a I unequal Semi-Circles ; of no manner of use ist
mnj geometrical Ejftfiion, a Spiral being vajily different. See the Appendix.



Chap, i- of the Compasses ^ the Ruler , Sec. 9

USE XII. Num. II. Upon a given right Line AB to defcribe an Ifofcelle a Triangle, one of

wbofe equal Legs is given.

.About the Point A, as a Center, with your Compares opened to that given Distance, Fig, 23- ckfcribe a small Arc of a Circle, and about the Point B with the fame Opening, defcribe another small Arc cutting the former one in the Point C. Draw AC and B C, then will die Triangle ABC be an lib feel les Triangle, defcribed upon the given Base A B, and having either of its equal Legs AC, B C of a given Length.

USE XIII. Upon a given right Line, to make a Triangle equal and fimiiar to a given one. Let the given Triangle be A B C, to which it is required to make another fimiiar, as Fig. 24. D E F. and 2 5 # Make the Line D E equal to AE; then about the Point D, as a Center, and with the Radius AC defcribe an Arc -, also about the Point E, as a Center, and with the Radius BC defcribe another Arc, cutting the former one in the Point F; then draw the Lines D F, EF, and there will be a Triangle made equal and fimiiar to the given one.

USE XIV. Upon a given right Line to make a Triangle fimiiar to a given one. Let the given Line be HI, upon which it is required to make a Triangle fimiiar (but Fig. 26.
nor. equal) to the Triangle A B C. and 2 ?'

IVhke the ngle ii equal to the Angle B, and the A,ngle I equal to the Angle A •, then

draw th ■ Lines H G, I G, 'till they meet each other, and the Triangle H IG will be that

required.

USE XV. To make a Triangle of three right Lines given j but any two of them mufi be

longer than lbs third.

Let the three given Lines be A, B, C •, first make the Line D E equal to the Line A, and Fig. 2E, about the Point E as a Center, with an Interval, equal to the Line B, defcribe thf- Portion of a Circle; also about D, as a Center, with an Interval equal to C, defcribe another Por- tion of a Circle, cutting rhe former one in the Point E j then draw the right Lines FD, F E, and the Triangle U F E will be that required.

USE XVI. Upon a given right Line to make a Square.

Let the given Line be A B, on which it is required to defcribe a Square, whose Side Fig. 29, may be equal to the given Line, first about the Point A, as a Center ; and with the Distance A B, defcribe the Arc BD, and about the Point B the Arc A E, interfering it in the Point C, and divide the Arc C A, or C B, into two equal Parts in the Point F: now make the Intervals C E, and C D, equal to C F, and draw the Lines A D, ^ E, D E, and the Square will be made.

Or, otherwise, upon the End of the Line AT, raife the Perpendicular AD equal to A B, and about the Point D, as a Center, with the Distance A D, defcribe an Arc ; likewise, Fig. 30. with the fame Opening of your Compasses about the Point B, defcribe another Arc, and 31. cutting the fir ft in the Point E, and draw the Lines AD, D E, E B, and the Square will be made.

I flial! fhew, in the Uses of the Protractor and Sector, how to make any regular Polygon upon a given Line ; but, by the way, I shall give one general Method for conftru&ing them, by means only of a Ruler and Compasses.

USE XVII. To inferibe any regular Polygon in a Circle.

Suppose, for Example, a Pentagon is to be made: Now if the Circle be given, divide it's Diameter into five equal Parts (by Use VIII.), but if it be not given, draw with your Pencil an indefinite Line for a Diameter-, which being divided into five equal Parts, open your Fig. 32. Compasses the whole Extent of the Diameter, and fetting one Foot of them upon the Ends of the Diameter, defcribe two Arcs interfering each other in the Point C, that thereby an equilateral Triangle may be formed ; then having drawn a Circle about the Diameter, lay a Ruler upon the laid Point C, and upon the second Division of the Diameter, and draw a Line, cutting the concave Part of the Circumference in the Point D •, then the Arc A D will be nighly a fifth Part of the Circumference : therefore the Extent A D will divide the Circle into five equal Parts, and drawing five Lines, the proposed Polygon will be made.

This is a general Method to make all regular Polygons : As, to make a Heptagon, there is no more to do but divide the Diameter A B into ieven equal Parts (that is, into as many Parts as the Figure hath Sides), and always drawing a Line from the Point C, thro' the fe- Cor.d Division of the Diameter.

The Conftruction of a Hexagon is fimpler •, because, without any Preparation, the Radius, or Semidiameter of the Circle, will divide the Circumference into fix equal Parts.

And the Dodecagon is made in only bifecting each Arc of the Hexagon ; therefore to make a Decagon, every Arc of the Pentagon must be bifeded.

This Problem is almost the fame as that defcribed in cap. 17. lib. 1. of the Chevalier de Pille's Fortification, except, that for dividing the Circle, he draws a Line from the exterior Angle of the equilateral Triangle, thro' the first Point of Division of the Diameter, and af-

D terwards



io Of the Conflruclion and Use Book I.

terwards he doubles the Arc of the Circle ; but his Method is far from being exadt : for, inthe Defcription of a Pentagon, the Angle at the Center is too great by forty-four Minutes ;in the Heptagon, it is too great one Degree and five Minutes •, and so the Error will be aug-mented in Polygons of a greater number of Sides. But by making the Line pass thro' thesecond Point of Division of the Diameter, the Angle at the Center of the Pentagon will be bucabout fix Minutes too little, and in the Heptagon it is too great by about fix Minutes ; which are much less Errors, and almost infenfible in the Defcription of the Polygons.

The Truth of the aforsaid Method of infcribing any regular Polygon in a Circle, which is mentioned in Sturmy'j- Mathefis Enucleata, may, by the help of "Trigonometry, be eaftly ex- amined. For, suppose A C G to be a Circle, D the Center, A C the Diameter, A B C an equilateral Triangle, E the second Point of Division of the Diameter divided into any Number cf equal Parts, B F drawn thro" the Points B, E, Fig. 33. D B perpendicular to A C, arid the Points D, F, joined: Now because the Semidiameter DC, and the whole Diameter BC are given, the Perpendicular DB (per Prop. 47. lib. 1. Eucl.) will be had.

Again, because the Number of equal Parts the Diameter is divided into, is given, the Line C E, which is two of those equal Parts, will be given, and confequently the Part D E ; then in the right-angled Triangle B D E, the Sides B D, D E being given, the Angle D B E may be found, by faying, as D B is to D E, so is Radius to the Tangent of the Angle DBE.

Moreover, because in the Triangle B D F, the Sides D B, and D F (equal to D C), are given, and the Angle F B D (which is now found), the Angle B F D may be fonnd, by faying^ as D F is to D B, so is the Sine of the Angle DBF, to the Sine of the Angle DFli: which being found, add it to the Angle DBF, and fubflracl the Sum from 180 Degrees ; then the Remainder will be the Angle B D F, from which take the right Angle B D C, and the Remainder will be the Angle F D C of the Center of the Polygon.

I have calculated, according to the aforsaid Directions, the Quantity of the Angle F D C for a Pentagon, which I find to want about 14 Minutes of 72 Degrees, the Angle of the Center for a Pentagon (though our Author fays it wants but fix), likewise the Hexagon wants 1 2 Minutes of 60 Degrees, the Angle at the Center ; that of the Oblagon is one Degree too great, and that of the Dodecagon 29 Minutes too great : therefore this Method is very errone- ous, and not to be used ; it being only true for inferibing a Square.

USE XVIII. To draw a Circle thro* three given Prints, provided they be not in a

right Line.
Fig, 34, Let the given Points be A, B, C: first draw a Line from the Point A to the Point B, and

another from the Point B to the Point C-, both of which divide into two equal Parts by the
Lines D E, F G, drawn at right Angles to them, and meeting each other in the Point H,
which will be the Center of the Circle : Now about the Point H as a Center, and with the
Distance HA, H B, or H C, defcribe a Circle, and what was required will be done.

By this means the Circumference of a Circle begun, may be finifhed, in taking three Points
in it, and proceeding as before.

USE XIX. To find the Center of a Circle.
Fig. 35. Let A B D be the given Circle, whose Center is required to be found ; draw the Line A B,

which bifect by the Line C D at right Angles : likewise bifect the Line B D by the Line
E F, cutting the Line C D in the Point G, which will be the Center of the Circle.

USE XX. To draw a right Line equal to the Circumference of a Circle -, and, contrari-

wife, to make the Circumference of a Circle equal to a given Line.

Let the given Circle A B C D be that whose Circumference it is required to make a right

Line equal to: First draw a right Line, and lay off upon it three times and 4 of the Dia-

Pig 36. meter, as from G to H ; then this right Line G H will be almost equal to the Circumference

of the Circle : I fay almost -, for if it could be exactly had equal to the Circumference, the

Quadrature of the Circle would also be had *, which hath not yet been Geometrically found.

USE XXI. To defcribe an Oval upon a given right Line.
Let AB be the given Line, upon which it is required to defcribe an Oval; trifect it in
the Points C and D •, then upon the Part C D defcribe two equilateral Triangles, whose Sides
Fig. ,« produce-, and about the Points C, D, with the Distance C A, or D B, defcribe Portions of a

Circle to the Sides of the Triangles, produced to the Points E, F, G, FI ; then about the
Points I, K, as Centers, and with the Radius I E, or I G, defcribe the Arc E G on one Side,
and the Arc F H en the other, and the Oval will be made. Note, This is not properly an
Oval, but fomething like one.

USE XXII. To defcribe an Ellipfis, having the two Axes given.
Let the great Axis be AB, and the small one CD, interfecting each other at right Angles
in the Point G.

First

* No, nor never v-itt, it being impojjil/le to be done,



Chap. I. of the CoMpasses, the Ruler, &c. II

First take with your Compafles, or a String, half the Length of the great Axis, that is* AG, or G B -, and with this Length fetting one foot of your Compafles in the Point C, de- Fig. 38 fcribe a Circle cutting the great Axis in the Points E, F, which will be the Foci of the Ellip- fis. This being done, place Pins in these Foci ; or, if the Ellipfis to be defcribed be re- quired large, and to be on the Ground, as ih a Garden, drive Pegs into them : Then take a Thread, or String, equal in Length to the great Axis A B, and after having doubled it, put it about the two Pins or Pegs placed in the Foci E, F ; so that the two Ends which you hold in your Hand may be in the End C of the small Axis : then holding a Pencil, or fome- thing else proper to make a Mark, in your Hand at C, move it round, keeping the String always tight, 'till it, together with the Ends of the Thread or String, comes again to the Point C, and the Ellipfis ADBC will % be defcribed by the Pencil.

Note, This Method of defcribing an Ellipfis is the bed of any ; as also if the Thread, or String be in Length augmented or diminished, without changing the Distance of the Foci, there will be had Ellipfes of another kind. Moreover, if without changing the Length of the Thread, or String, the Distance of the Foci be diminished, there will ftill be had another Species of Ellipfes •, and when the Foci's Distance is infinitely diminished, a Circle will be defcribed : But if the Length of the great Axis be augmented or diminished, together with the String (which is equal to it), in the fame Proportion as the Distance of the Foci, all" the Ellipfes will be similar, but of different Magnitudes.

'To draw an Eliipjis another way.

The two Foci E, F, being found (as in the precedent Figure), any Number of Points, thro' which the Ellipfis mult pass, may in this manner be found. Open your Compafles at pleafure to any Distance greater than A F, as to the Distance A I ; then fet one of their Points in the Focus F, and with the other defcribe the Arc O R ; afterwards open the Com- Fig. 351* pafles the Distance I B, which is the remaining part of the great Axis, and fetting one of it's Points in the other Focus E, with the Distance I B defcribe the Arc S T, and the Point P of InterfecYion will be in the Periphery of the Ellipfis. In like manner, the Distances A L, L B, defcribed about the Foci, will interfedt each other in the Point hi : and, finally, by opening your Compafles to different Distances, any Number of Points may be found •, which being joined, an Ellipfis will be had.

Note, Every Opening of your Compafles ferves to find four Points equally diltant from the
Axes i as also if, from any Point taken at pleafure in the Periphery of an Ellipfis, two right
Lines, as P F, P E, are drawn to the Focij these will be both together equal to the great Axis.

USE XXIII. To make one Figure equal and similar to another Figure.

Let the proposed Figure be A B C D E, to which another is to be made similar and equal.

First divide it into Triangles by the Lines AC, AD; then draw the Line a b equal to
A B ; and about the Point b, with the Distance B C, defcribe an Arc : also about the Point &lt;z, p^ 4 a.
and with the Distance A C, defcribe another Arc, cutting the former one in the Point c, and
draw the Line b c : In like manner proceed for the other Sides, and the Figure a b c de will
be similar to the proposed Figure A B C D E.

USE XXIV. To reduce great Figures to lejfer ones, and contrariwise.

Because the Reduction of Figures is useful, there is here three ways given to reduce them.

First, a Figure may be reduced in taking a Point within it, and drawing of Lines to all the Fig. 41* Angles : for Example, let the Figure A B C D E be proposed to be reduced to a lefler.

Take the Point F, about the middle of the Figure, and draw Lines to all the Angles ABCDE; then draw the Line a b parallel to the Line A B, the Line b c parallel to B C, &c and the Figure a b c d e will be similar to the Figure ABCDE.

If a greater figure be required, there is no more to do but produce the Lines drawn from the Center of the Figure, and then drawing Parallels to it's Sides.

To reduce a Figure by the Scale.

Meafure all the Sides of the proposed Figure ABCDE, with the Scale G H $ then take
another lefler Scale K L, containing as many equal Parts as the greater. Now make the Side Fig. 42.
a b as many Parts of the lefler Scale, as the Side A B contains of the greater one's Parts $
also make b c as many Parts as B C, and a c as many as A C, &c. by which means the Fi-
gure will be reduced to a lefler one.

To reduce a lefler Figure to a greater one, a greater Scale must be had, and proceed as
before.

To reduce Figures by the Angle of Proportion.

Let the proposed Figure A B C D E be that which is to be diminished in the proportion
of the Line A B, to the Line a b.

First draw the indefinite Line G H, and take the Length A B, and lay off from GtoHj Fig. 43.
then about the Point G, defcribe the Arc H I. Again, take the Length of the given Side
abj as a Chord of the Arc H I, draw the Line G I, and the Angls I G H will give all the
Sides of the Figure to. be reduced.



12 Of the Construction and Use Book I.

As to have the Point c, take the Interval B C, and about the Point G defcribe the Arc KL ;
also about the Point b, with the Distance LK, defcribe a small Arc. Now take the Distance A C,
and about the Point G defcribe the Arc M N ; likewise about the Point a, with the Distance
MN, defcribe an Arc, cutting the precedent one in the Point c, which will be that which mud
be had to draw the Side be: in like manner proceed for all the other Sides and Angels of the
Figure.

If by this means a small Figure is to be reduced to a greater, the fame manner of pro-
ceeding will do it; but the Side of the Figure to be augmented must be leffer than double
of that anfwering to it. As for Example -, to reduce the Figure a b c d e to a greater, the
Side A B of the greater one, must be leffer than double the Side a b of the fmaller one:
for if it was double, the two Fines forming the Angle I G FI, would directly meet each
other, and make but one right Line.

To reduce Figures by means of Squares.
This way particularly ferves to copy, augment, or diminish a Map.
Fig. \\. Let, for Example, the Map A B C D be proposed to be reduced to a leffer one. Fir ft, di-

vide it into Squares, then make a leffer similar Figure a b c d, which likewise divide into the
fame Number of Squares as you did A BCD. This being done, draw in every Square of
the leffer Figure, what is contained in the correfpondent Square of the greater Figure, and
there will be a leffer Map. Note., The greater the Number of Squares are, the jufter will the
Figure be.






CHAP. II.

Of the Construction and Use of the Square,

Square is an Instrument ferving to raife Perpendiculars, and to know whether one Line be perpendicular to another. It is made of two Rulers of Brass, or other Metal, joined Fig. D. in such manner as to make a right Angle with each other. There are some Squares, whole

two Rulers, or Branches, are firmly fixed ; and others that open and fruit by help of a Joint, that ought to be well fitted to hinder the Square from fhaking •, and that it may preferve it's right Angle. To do which, there is adjufted in a small Gutter made at the Angle (which is 45 Degrees) of one of the Branches of the Square, three Knuckh's proportionable in Length and Breadth, to the Length and Breadth of the Square. Thefe Knuckles ought to be so far distant from each other, that they may exactly receive between them two other Knuckles, which are adjufted to the other Branch of the Square. The Knuckles being thus placed, are foldered to the Branches, and afterwards are united to one anochcr by means of a Pin, which must exactly fill the Cavity of the Knuckles, that thcr: by the Motion of the Branches may be fteady.

Note. There are some Squares to which a Thread and Plummet is hung, which ferves for levelling ; that is, to make horizontal Planes: also upon one of the Sides of the Square are fometimes fundry Lines and Scales placed ; and upon the other, half a Foot divided into 6 Inches, every one of which is fubdivided into 12 Lines : moreover, there are fometime3 ad- ded to it other Country Meafures compared with the Paris Foot.

USE I. To let fall from a given Point, a Perpendicular upon a given Line. Let the Line given be A B, and C the given Point, either in or without the Line. Fig. 45. Apply one °f tne Sides of the Square to the given Line, in such manner that the other

Side touches the given Point •, then draw the lane C D, which will be a Perpendicular. Note, If the Square be turned about, and that Side which before was applied to the Line, is made to pass thro' the Point C, and, as before, another Line be drawn, as CD: by this means you may know whether the Square be true. For when it is true, the two Lines drawn thro' the Point C, will make but one Line.

USE II. To know if one Line be perpendicular to another ; that is, whether they make

right singles with each other.

Apply one of the Sides of the Square to one of the Lines, and fee if the other Side exactly agrees with the other Line. All this is so extreme cafy, there needs but a few words to explain it.

C H A P. III.

Of the ConftruElion and Uses of the ProtraStor,

T\ H E Protractor is a Semi-Circle divided into 180 Degrees, or half of 360, which every
whole Circle is supposed to be divided into, as was laid in the Definitions. One Side
r; 3 E. of this Instrument is filed flat, for better applying it on the Piper ; and the other Side is

Hoped -,



Chan. 3. of the Protra&or, &c. 13

floncd ; that is, nude thin towards the Edge whereon the Divisions are : and for better di£
covering the Points wherein Angles terminate, there is a small femicircular Notch made in the
Center of the Instrument.

How to divide the Limb of the "Protractor.

Upon the Line A B, and about the Center O, defcribe a Semicircle ; then carry the Ra- dius A O round the Circumference, which will divide the Semicircle into three equal Parts, in the Points C, D, each of which is 60 Degrees. Again, divide the Arc B C into two equal Parts, in the Point E, and the Arc B E, will be 30 Degrees : then turning this Opening of your CompafTes round the Semicircle, it will divide it into fix equal Parts. Moreover, divide them apain into three equal Parts, and each will be 10 Degrees ; and dividing every one of these 10 Degrees into two equal Parts more, Arcs of 5 Degrees will be had. And lastly, in fubdividing each of these Arcs of 5 Degrees, into five equal Parts, Arcs of one Degree will be had.

In the fame manner may a whole Circle be divided into 360 Degrees, which we (hall fpeak of hereafter.

Note, Protractors are fometimes made of Horn, which, because they are tranfparent, are commodious enough ; but they ought to be kept in a Book when they are not using, because the Horn is apt to wrinkle.

U S E I. To make an Angle of any Number of Degrees.

For Example ; to make at the Point A, an Angle of 50 Degrees on the Line CAB, lay the Center of the Protractor, marked by a femicircular Cavity, upon the Point A, so that the Diameter of the Semicircle be upon the Line A B ; then make a Dot over against the 50th Fig. 45. Degree of the Limb of the Protractor, and thro' it draw a Line to the Point A, which will make an Angle of 50 Degrees with the Line A B.

USE II. The Angle BAD being given, to find how many Degrees it contains. Lay the Center of the Protractor upon the Point A, and it's Diameter upon the Line BC; then fee what Degree the Line A B cuts the Limb of the Protractor in, which will be the Fig. 46. Angle BAD of 50 Degrees.

U S E III. To infer -'the any regular Polygon in a Circle.

To do this, you mud first know how many Degrees the Angle of the Center of each of the regular Polygons contains; which may be found in dividing 360 Degrees, by the Num- ber of Sides of a proposed Polygon: as, for Example, dividing 360 by 5, the Quotient 72, fheweth that the Angle of the Center of a Pentagon is 72 Degrees : again, in dividing 360 by 8, the Quotient 45, gives the Quantity of the Angle of the Center of an Octagon, and so for others.

In knowing the Angle of the Center, the Angle formed by the Sides of the Polygon may likewise be known, in fubftracting the Angle of the Center of the Polygon from 180 Degrees; as taking 72 Degrees, the Angle of the Center of a Pentagon from 180 Degrees, there re- mains 108, the Angle of the Polygon. Moreover, taking from 180 Degrees, the Angle of the Center of an Octagon, which is 45 Degrees, there remains 135 Degrees, the Angle of the Octagon.

Therefore to inferibe a Pentagon in a Circle, lay the Center of the Protractor upon the Fig. 47, Center of the Circle, and apply the Diameter of the Protractor, to the Diameter of the Circle ; then make a Dot against the 72 d Degree of the Limb of the Protractor ; and thro' this Dot, and the Center of the Circle, draw a Line cutting the Circumference of the Circle in the Point C. Now take between your CompafTes the Dittance of the Points B and C, which will divide the Circumference of the Circle into 5 equal Parts, and drawing 5 right Lines, the Polygon will be made.

If a Heptagon is to be inferibed, divide 360 Degrees by 7, and the Quotient 51 | d fhew- eth, that the Angle of the Center is almofl 51 ^ d •, therefore having placed the Protractor, as before, Note, 51 ' Degrees on the Limb of the Protractor, thro' which draw a Line from the Center of the Circle, and you will have the Side of the Heptagon.

Note, Upon some Protractors are placed the Numbers, denoting regular Polygons, to avoid the trouble of Division, in finding the Angles at the Center: as the Number 5, for a Penta- gon, is fet against 72 Degrees on the Limb of the Protractor •, the Number 6 for a Hexagon, is fet over-against 60 Degrees, the Number 7 against 51 i. d , CsrV.

USE IV. To defcribe any regular Polygon upon a given Line.

Let the given Line be CD, upon which it is required to defcribe a regular Pentagon.

We have fhewn in the precedent Use, how to find the Angles of any regular Polygon ; and pjg. ^g;
since the Angle made by the two Sides of the Polygon is 108 Degrees, 54 Degrees it's half
will be the Semi- Angle of the Polygon ; by means of which, you may defcribe it in the fol-
lowing manner :

Apply the Diameter .of the Protractor to the Line C D, and it's Center to the End D \
then make a Dot against the 54th Degree of the Limb, and draw the Line D F, making an

E Angle



j a Of the ConflruSiion and Uses Book L

Angle of 54 11 with the Line C D. Moreover, remove the Center of the Protractor to the
other End C, and there likewise make an Angle of 54 Degrees, by drawing the Line C F ;
then about the Point of Concourfe F, defcribe a Circle with the Distance C F. Laftly, take
the Length of the given Line C D, and carry it round the Circumference of the Circle, and
drawing four right Lines, the Pentagon will be made.

If an Octagon is to be defcribed upon a given right Line, take half the Angle of the
Polygon, which is 6y 1 Degrees, and make an Angle of the like Number of Degrees upon
each End of the given Line, by which an Ifofceles Triangle will be formed, whole Vertex
will be the Center of a Circle, which will be divided into eight equal Parts, by carrying the
CompafTes round it with the Extent of the given Line.

There may be made many more Operations with the Instruments already fpoken of; but
we mail content ourfelves with those already mentioned, as being the mod common, and
useful.

ADDITIONS of Englifli Instruments.

Of the ConflruSiion and Uses of the Carpenter's Joint-Rule, the Four-
foot Gauging-Rod ; EverarcTs Sliding-Rule ; Coggeshall\ Sliding-
RuJe, the Plotting-Scale, an Improved Protractor, the Plain-Scale,
and Gunter's Scale.



CHAP. I. "

Of the ConflruSiion and Uses- of the Carpenter's Joint- Rule, together
with the Line of Numbers commonly placed thereon.

Plate 3. t ft AHI S Rule is ufually made of Box, 24 Inches long, an Inch and a half, or an Inch Pig f&lt; ' and a quarter broad, and of a Thicknefs at pleafure; one Side of it is divided in-

JL to 24 equal Inches, according to the Standard at Guildhall, London, and every one of these 24 Inches are divided into 8 equal Parts •, that is, into halfs, quarters, and half-quar- ters : The half-inches are distinguished from the quarters, and the quarters from the half- quarters, by Strokes of different Lengths, and at every whole Inch are fet Figures, pro- ceeding from 1 to 24.

On the fame Side of this Rule, is commonly placed Giintcr 1 * Line of Numbers, of which
more hereafter.
Fig 2. The other Side of the Rule hath upon it the Lines of Timber and Board-Meafure, the

Construction of which is as follows :

The Line of Timber-Meafure begins at 8 and a half-, that is, when the Figures of the Timber-Line (land upright to you, it begins at the left End at 8 and a half, and proceeds to 36, within an Inch, and ~ of an Inch of the other End. It is made from a Consideration, that 1728 Inches make a solid Foot: for any Divifioiv, suppose 9, which signifies the Side of a Square is so placed against some one of the Divisions of Inches or Parts on the other Side, beginning from the right Hand, that it's Square, which is 81 Inches, multiplied by that Number of Inches and Parts, must make 1728 Inches, or a solid Foot ; which in dividing 1728 by 81, must be placed against 21 'Inches from the right Hand. In like manner the Division for the Number io, on the Line of Timber-Meafure, must be placed against \j T ~l- Inches on the other Side -, because 1728, divided by the Square of 10, which is 100, gives 1 7 riii and in like manner for all the other Divisions. But because a Square, whole Side is either 1,2, &c. to 8 Inches, requires more than 24 Inches in Length to multiply it by, in order to make a solid Foot, or 1728 Inches ; and since 24 Inches is the whole Length of the Rule, therefore there is a Table put upon the left end of the Rule, fupplying a greater Length.

The upper Row of Figures, numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, are Inches, or the Lengths of the Sides of Squares •, and the second and third Rows are the correfpondent Feet and In- ches to make up a solid Foot. It is made by dividing 144 Inches by the Squares of 1, 2, 3, 4&gt; 5&gt; 6, 7, 8; as the Square of 1 Inch is 1, by which dividing 144, the Quotient will be 144 Feet for the first Number of the second Row of Figures, and in like manner for the Rest.

Chap. i. of the Carpenter's Joint-Rule ', &C. I c-

On, or next the other Edge of the Rule, you have the Line of Board-Meafure ; and when the Figures (land upright, you fee it numbered 7, 8, 9, &V. to 36. which is juft 4 Inches from the right Hand, it is thus divided ; suppose the Division 7 is to be marked divide 144, which is the Number of Inches in a square Foot, by 7, and the Quotient will be 20 ± In- ches ; whence the Division 7 must be against 20 £ Inches on the other Side of the Rule. ' A- gain, to mark the Division 8, divide 144 by 8, and the Quotient, which is 18 Inches,' mult be placed on the Line of Board-Meafure against 18 Inches on the other Side: proceed thus for the other Divisions of the said Line. But because the Side of" a long Square, that is ei- ther 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Inches, requires the other Side to be more than 24 Inches, which is the whole. Length of the Rule ; therefore there is a Table placed at the other end of the Rule, made in dividing 144 Inches by each of the Numbers in the upper Row, and then each of the Quotients by 12, to bring them into Feet.

U S E 0/ the Carpenter's Joint- Rule i The Inches on this Rule are to measure the Length or Breadth of any given Superficies of Solid, and the manner of doing it is fuperfluous to mention, it being not only eafy, but even natural to any Man ; for holding the Rule in the left Hand, and applying it to the Board, or any thing to be measured, you have your Defire. But now for the Use of the other Side, I mall fhew in two or three Examples in each Meafure, that is, Superficial and Solid.

Example I. The Breadth of any Superficies ; as Board, Glass, or the like, being given : ttt
find how much in Length makes a Square Foot.

To do which, look for the Number of Inches your Superficies is broad, in the Line of Board Mt afore, and keep your Finger there-, and right against it, on the Inches Side, you have the Ntin.btr of Inches that makes up a Foot of Board, Glass, or any other Superficies Suppose you have a Piece 8 Inches broad, how many Inches make a Foot ? Look for 8 on the Board Meafure, and juft against your I inger (being fet to 8) on the Inch-Side, you will find 18, and 10 many Inches long, at that Breadth, goes to. make a fuperficial Foot.

Again, suppose a Superficies is 18 Inches broad, then you will find that 8 Inches in
Length will make a fuperficial Foot; and if a Superficies is 3 6 Inches broad, then 4 Inches
in Ler.gch makes a Foot.

Or you may do it more eafy thus : Take your Rule, holding it in your left Hand, and apply it to the Breadth of the Board or Glass, making the End, which is next 36, even with one F dge of the Board or Glass, and the other Edge of the Board will fhew how many Inches, or Quarters of an Inch, go to make a square Foot of Board or Glass. This is but the Con- verfe of the former, and needs no Example ; for laying the Rule to it, and looking on the board-lvkuiure, you have your Defire.

Or else you may do it thus, in all narrow Pieces under 6 Inches broad : As suppose 3 « Inches, double 3 ', it makes 6 \ - 3 then twice the Length from 6 \ to the End of the Rule*" will make a fuperficial Foot, or so much in Length makes a Foot.

Example II. A Superficies of any Length or Breadth being given, to find the Content. Flaving found the Breadth, and how much makes one Foot, turn that over as manv times as you can upon the Length of the Superficies, for so many Feet are in that Superficies • But it it is a great Breadth, you may turn it over two or three times, and then take that toee-

tfthe Superficies. 2 ' ^ *' ** ^ ***' " 3 ' *' 9 ' ^ * 5 ' l8 ' "' '" JI y ° U COme t0 the *» d

The USE of the Table at the End of the Board-Meafure.
If a Superficies is 1 Inch broad, how many Inches in Length must there go to make a
fuperficial Foot ? Look in the upper Row of Figures for 1 Inch, and under it, in the second

^^.tpSi^ 1 whlch * ews that I2 Feet in Len ^ and ■ ^ - b3J

Again a Superficies 5 Inches broad, will be found, in the said Table, to have 2 Feet and about 5 Inches in Length to make a fuperficial Foot ; and a Prece 8 Inches broad," wi have a Length of 1 Foot 6 Inches to make a fuperficial Foot.

U SE of the Line of Timber- Meafure.

is W^nd^nnVf mU ? r kC l x? fc T e r : f ° L r first y° u must learn how much y° u r P^ Lm t^ t I i°°&gt; f ? r L the J ame Number on the Line of Timber-Meafure, and the Space

Timber the Rule ' iS the tFUe Length at that Sc l uarenefs t0 ™ ke a Fo0 ^ of

mSS?*' wt ere L S a Piec V hat is 9 Inches f ^ uare ' Iook for 9 on the Line of Timber- ed Sir «f t V he Sp !f G fr ° m 9 \ t0 L thc End ofthe Rule &gt; is ?he true Lc^h to make a loiid foot of Timber, and it is 21 4 Inches.
 a F^ V UPP ° fe -n 5? °J Ti ? b 5 r is 2 * Inches f 9 uare &gt; then 3 Inches in Length will make a Foot, for you will find three Inches on the other Side against 24 : But if it is small Tim- oer, as under 9 Inches square, you must feek the Square in the upper Rank in the Table,

and



1 6 Of the Conjlruclion and Uses B o o k I .

and right under you have the Feet and Inches that go to make a fold Foot, as was in the Table of Board Meafure : As suppose a Piece of Timber is 7 Inches square, look in the Table for 7, in the upper Row of Numbers, and you will find directly under 2 Feet, 1 1 In- ches, which is the Length of the Piece of Timber that goes to make a solid Foot: But if a Piece be not exactly square, viz. is broader at one Side than the other, then the usual way is to add them both together, and take half the Sum for the Side of the Square ; but if they differ much, this way is very erroneous : for that half is always too great, which from hence will eafily be manifest.
?ig 3. Let A C be the longeft Side, C D the fhorteft, and B D, or A B, half their Sum, which

is taken for the Side of the Square, that is, for the Side of a Square whose Area is equal to the Product of the two Sides A C, and C D, into one another, or the Rectangle under them : Now with the Distance B D, and on the Center B, defcribe a Semicircle •, draw the Dia- meter E B, at right Angles, to A D, and from the Point C raife the Perpendicular F C ; then it is manifest, per Prop. 13. lib. 6. Eucl. that F C is a mean Proportional between the Sides AC, CD-, that is, FC is the true Side of the Square, which, per Prop. 15. lib. 3. Eucl. is much less than E B, or it's Equal A B, or B D.

The usual way likewise for round Timber, is to take a String, and girt it about, and the fourth part of it is commonly allowed for the Side of the Square, that is, for the Side of a Square equal to the circular Base, and then you deal with it as if it was juft Square. But this way is also erroneous •, for by this Method you lofe above ~ of the true Solidity. But for maintaining this ill Cuftom, they plead, The Overplus Meafure may well be allowed, because the Chips cut off are of little Value, and will not near countervail the Labour of bringing the limber to a Square, to which Form it must be brought before it be fit to ufe.

The Defcription of Gunter'j Line, or the Line of Numbers.

The Line of Numbers is only the Logarithms transferred on a Ruler from the Tables, by means of a Scale divided into a great Number of equal Parts-, and whereas in the Loga- rithms, by adding or fubftracting them from one another, the Quafita is produced ; so here, by turning a Pair of CompafTes forwards or backwards, according to due Order on this Line, the ^u^efita will in like manner be produced. The Conftruction of this Line I shall give in fpeaking of Gunter's Scale.

As to the Length of the Line of Numbers, the longer it is, the better it is •, whence it hath been contrived several ways: As first upon a Rule of two Foot, and a Rule of three Foot long, by Gunter, which (as I suppose) is the Reason why it is called Gunter's Line ; then that Line was doubled, or laid so together, that you might work either right on, or crofs from one to another, by Mr Windgate\ afterwards projected in a Circle, by Mr Ough- tred, and also to Aide one by another, by the the fame Author ; and last of all, projected into a kind of Spiral, off, 10, or 20 Turns, more or less, by Mr Brown, the Uses being in all of them in a manner the fame, only some with CompafTes, as Mr Gunter's and y\xWind- gate's -, and some with flat CompafTes, or an opening Index, as Mr Oughtred's and Mr Brown's ; and some without either, as the Sliding-Rules.

The Order of the Divisions on this Line of Numbers, and commonly on most others, is thus -, it begins with 1, and so proceeds with 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 -, and then 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, whose Order of Numeration is thus: The first 1 signifies one Tenth of any whole Number or Integer, and confequently the next 2 is two Tenths-, 3, three Tenths; and all the small intermediate Divisions are 100 Parts of an Integer, or a Tenth of one of* the former Tenths ; so that 1 in the middle is one whole Integer -, the next 2, two Integers ; and 10 at the end, 10 Integers : Thus the Line is in it's most proper Acceptation, or natural Division.

But if you are to deal with a Number greater than 10, then 1 at the beginning must fignify 1 Integer, and 1 in the middle 10 Integers, and 10 at the end 100 Integers. But if you would have it to a Figure more, then the first 1 is 10, the second 100, and the last 10 a 1000. If you proceed further, then the first 1 is 100, the middle 1 a 1000, and the 10 at the end 10000, which is as great a Number as can well be difcovered, on this or most ordinary Lines of Numbers ; and so far, with convenient Care, you may refolve a Queftion tolerably exact.

Numeration on the Line of Numbers.

Any whole Number being given under four Figures, to find the Point on the Lint of Numbers that reprefents the fame. First look for the first Figure of your Number amongft the long Divisions that are figured, and that leads you to the first Figure of your Number -, then for the second Figure, count so many Tenths from that long Division forwards, as that second Figure amounts to ; then for the third Figure, count from the last Tenth so many Centefmes as the third Figure contains; and so for the fourth Figure, count, from the last Centefme, so many Millions as that fourth Figure has Units, or is in Value, and that will be the Point where the Number propounded is on the Line of Numbers. Two or three Examples will make this manifest.

First, to find the Point upon the Line of Numbers reprefenting the Number 12. Now because the first Figure of this Number is 1, you must take the 1 in the middle for the first

Figure 5

Chap. i. of the Carpenter's yoint-Rule^ &c. 1 7

Fio-ure ; then the next Figure being 2, count two Tenths from that 1, and there will be the Point reprefenting 12.

S-condly, To rind the Point reprefenting 144, Fir It, as before, take for r the fir ft; Figure of the Number 144, the middle Figure 1 ; then for the second {viz. 4.) count four Tenths forwards •, lastly, for the other 4, count four Centefms further, and that is the Point for 144.

Thirdly, To find the Point reprefenting 1728. First, as before, for 1000 take the middle I on the Line. Secondly, for 7 reckon seven Tenths forwards, and that is 700. Thirdly, for ?, reckon two Centefms, from that 7th Tenth, for 20. And, Laftly, for 8 you must reasonably eftimate that following Ccntefm to be divided into 10 Parts (if it be not expRested, which in Lines of ordinary Length cannot be done), and 8 of that supposed 10 Parts is the precife Point for 1728, the Number propounded to be found; and the like of any other

Number.

But if you was to find a Fraction, ycu must confider, that properly, or abfolutely, the Line only expRestes Decimal Fractions ; as thus, T V&gt; or ~ T , or - rt ~, and more near the Rule in common Acceptation cannot exprefs-, as one Inch, one Tenth, one Hundredth, or one Thoufandth Part of an Inch, it being capable to be applied to any thing in a decimal way : (But if you would use other Fractions, as Quarters, Half-Quarters, &rV. you must reasonably read them, or else reduce them into Decimals.)

The fundamental Uses of the Line of Numbers.

USE I. Two Numbers being given, to find a third Geometrically proportional to them, and to three a fourth, and to four a fifth, &c.

Extend your CompafTes upon the Line of Numbers, from one Number to another ; which done, if that Extent is applied (upwards or downwards, as you would either increafe or di- minifh the Number), from either of the Numbers, the moveable Point will fall upon the third proportional Number required. Alio the fame Extent, applied the fame way from the third, will give you a fourth, and from the fourth a fifth, &c. For Example, let the Numbers 2 and 4 be proposed, to find a third Proportional, &c. to them : Extend the Com- pafTes upon the first Part of the Line of Numbers, from 2 to 4; which done, if the fame Extent is applied upwards from 4, the moveable Point will fall upon 8, the third Proportio- nal required ; and then from 8 it will reach to 16, the fourth Proportional ; and from 16 to 32 the fifth, &c. Contrariwife, if you would diminish, as from 4 to 2, the moveable Point will fall on 1, and from 1 to T 5 , or .5, and from .5 to .25, &c. as is manifest from the Na- ture of the Logarithms, and Prop. 20. lib. 7. Eucl.

But generally in this, and most other Work, make use of the small Divisions in the middle of the Line, that you may the better eftimate the Fractions of the Numbers you make use of; for how much you mils in fetting the CompafTes to the first and second Term, so much the more you will err in the fourth ; therefore the middle Part will be most useful : As for Ex- ample, as 8 to 11, so is 12 to 16.50, if you imagine one Integer to be divided but into 10 Parts, as they are on the Line on a two-foot Rule.

USE II. One Number being given to be multiplied by another given Number, to find the

Produtl.

Extend your CompafTes from 1 to the MultiplicUor, and the fame Extent, applied the fame way from the Multiplicand, will caufe the moveable Point to fall upon the Product ; as is manifest from the Nature of the Logarithms, and Defin. 15. lib. 7. Eucl.

Example. Let 6 be given to be multiplied by 5 ; extend your CompafTes from 1 to 5, and the fame Extent will reach from 6 to 30, the Product fought. Again, suppose 125 is to be multiplied by 144-, extend you CompafTes from 1 to 125, and the moveable Point will fall from 144 on 18000 the Product.

USE III. One Number being given to be divided by another, to find the Quotient.

Extend your Compaflls from the Divisor to 1, and the fame Extent will reach from the Dividend to the Quotient ; or, extend the CompafTes from the Divisor to the Dividend, the fame Extent will reach the fame way from 1 to the Quotient, as is manifest from the Nature of the Logarithms, and this Property, that as the Divisor is to Unity, so is the Dividend to the Quotient.

Example. Let 750 be a Number given, to be divided by 25 (the Divisor), extend your CompafTes downwards from 25 to 1 ; then applying that Extent the fame way from 750, and the other Point of the CompafTes will fall upon 30, the Quotient fought. Again, let 1728 be given to be divided by 12 ; extend your CompafTes from 12 to 1, and the fame Extent will reach the fame way from 1728 to 144.

If the Number is a Decimal Fraction, then you must work as if it was an abfolute whole Number ; but if it is a whole Number joined to a decimal Fraction, it is worked here as properly as a whole Number : As suppose 1 11. 4 is to be divided by 1.728, extend your Com- pafTes from 1.728 to 1, the fame Extent, applied from 11 1.4, will reach to 64.5. So again, 56.4 being to be divided by 8.75, and the Quotient will be found to be 6.45.

Now to know of how many Figures any Quotient ought to confift, it is necefTary to write down the Dividend, and the Divisor under it, and fee how often it may be written under

F iti



j § Of the Conjl ruction and Uses Bo o k I.

it ; for so many Figures must there be in the Quotient : As in dividing this Number 12231 by 27, according to the Rules of Division, 27 may be written 3 times under the Dividend •, therefore there must be 3 Figures in the Quotient: for if you extend the Compasses from 27 to 1, it will reach from 122 31 to 453, the Quotient fought.

Note, That in this Use, or any other, it is beft to order it fo, that your Compasses may be at the clofeft Extent ; for you may take a clofe Extent more eafy and exact than a large Extent, as by Experience you will find.

USE IV. Three Numbers being given, to find a fourth in a diretl Proportion.

Extend your Compasses from the first Number to the second; that done, the fame Extent applied the fame v/ay from the third, will reach to the fourth Proportional fought, as is manifest from the Nature of the Logarithms, and Prop. 19. lib. 7. Eucl. from whence it may be gathered, that the third Number multiply'd by the second, divided by the first, will give the fourth fought.

Example. If 7 give e 22, what will 14 give ? Extend your Compasses upwards from 7 to 14, and that Extent applied the fame way, will reach from 22 to 44, the fourth Proportional required. Again, if 38 gives 76, what will 96 give ? Extend your Compasses from 38 to 96, and the fame Extent will reach from 76 to 192, the fourth Proportional fought.

U S E V*. Three Numbers being given, to find a fourth in an Inverfe Proportion. Extend your Compasses from the first of the given Numbers to the second of the fame Denomination ; if that Distance be applied from the third Number backwards, it will reach to the fourth Number fought.

Example. If 60 give e 5, what will 30 give? Extend your Compasses from 60 to 30, and that Extent applied the contrary way from 5, will give 2.5 the Anfwer. Again, If 60 gives 48, what will 40 give ? Extend your Compasses from 60 to 40 -, that Extent applied the • contrary way from 48, will reach to 32, the fourth Number fought.

USE VI. Three Numbers being given, to find a fourth in a duplicate Proportion.

This Use concerns Queftions of Proportions between Lines and between Superficies ; now if the Denominations of the first and second Terms are Lines, then extend your Compasses from the first Term to the second (of the fame kind of Denomination): this done, that Extent ap- plied twice the fame way from the third Term, and the moveable Point will fall upon the fourth Term required, which is manifest from the nature of the Logarithms, and from hence, viz. Because the fourth Number to be found is only a fourth Proportional to the Square of the first, the Square of the second, and the third, it is plain that the third, multiplied by the Square of the second, divided by the third, will be the fourth Number fought.

Example. If the Area of a Circle, whole Diameter is 14, be 154, what will the Content of a Circle be, whose Diameter is 28 ? Here 14 and 28 having the fame Denomination, viz. both Lines, extend the Compasses from 14 to 28, then applying that Extent the fame way From 154 twice, the moveable Point will fall upon 616, the fourth Proportional or Area fought : Because Circles are to each other as the Squares of their Diameters, per Prop. 2. lib. 12. Eucl.

USE VII. Three Numbers being given, to find a fourth in a triplicate Proportion.

This Use is to find the Proportion between the Powers of Lines and Solids ; that is, two Lines being given and a Solid, to find a fourth Solid, that has the fame Proportion to the given Solid, as the given Lines have to one another. Therefore extend the Compassts from the first Line to the second, and that Extent, applied three times from the given Solid or third Number, will give the fourth fought : Because the third multiplied by the Cube of the second, divided by the Cube of the first, will give the fourth.

Example. If an Iron Bullet, whose Diameter is 4 Inches, weighs 9 Pounds, what will an- other Iron Bullet weigh, whose Diameter is 8 Inches ? Extend your Compasses from 4 to 8, that Extent applied the fame way three times from 9, will give 72, the Weight of the Bullet fought. Because the Weight of homogeneal Bodies are as their Magnitudes, and Spheres are to one another as the Cubes of their Diameters, per Prop. 16. lib. 12. Eucl.

USE VIII. To find a mean Proportional between two given Numbers.

Bifect the Distance between the given Numbers, which Point of BifccYion will fall on the mean Proportional fought : Because the square Root of the Quotient of the two Extremes di- vided by one another, mutiplied by the leffer, is equal to the Mean.

Example. The Extremes being 8 and 32, the middle Point between them will be found
to be 16.

USE IX. To find two mean Proportionals between two given Lines. Trifecc the Space between the two given Extremes, and the two Points of Infection will give the two Means. Because the Cube Root of the Quotient of the Extremes divided by one another, multiplied by the leffer Extreme, will give the first of the Mean Proportionals fought, and that first Mean multiplied by the aforsaid Cube P.oot, will give the second.

Example*






Chap. 2. of the Four-Foot Gauging-Rod. Ia

Example. Let 8 and 27 be the two given Extremes, the two Means will be found to be 12

and 1 8, which are the two Means fought.

U S E X. To find the Square Root of any Number under 1 000000.

The Square Root of any Number is always a mean Proportional between 1, and theNum ber whole Root you would find ; but yet with this general Caution, viz. If the Fiaures of the Number are even, that is, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, fcfV. then you must look for the Unit at the Beginning of the Line, and the Number in the second Part or Radius, and the Root in the fiat Part ; or gather reckon 10 at the end to be Unity, and then both Root and Square will fail backwards towards the middle in the second Length or Part of the Line • But if thev be odd, then the middle 1 will be mofl convenient to be counted Unity, and both Root and Square will be found from thence forwards towards 10 ; so that according to this Rule the Square Root of 9 will be found to be 3, the Square Root of 64 will be found to be 8 the Square Root of 144 to be 12, &c. '

USE XI. To find the Cube Root of any Number under 1000000000.
_ The Cube Root is always the first of two mean Proportionals between 1 and the Number
given, and therefore to be found by trifedting the Space between them; whence the Cube

a f, 'C u f K U p ^ the u R0 T ° C ° f I728 ° is near 26 &gt; the Ro ° c of 17^00 is aK
moll 5 6. Although the Point on the Line reprefenting all the square Numbers is in one

place, yet by altering the Unit, it produce* various Points and Numbers for their eftXe

proper Roots The Rule to find this, is in this manner: You must fet Dots (or suppose

them to be fet) over the first Figure to the Left-hand, the fourth Figure, the seventh, and

the tenth ; now if by this means the last Dot to the Left-hand falls oS the last Figure, as it

doth in 1728, then the Unit must be placed at 1 in the middle of the Line, ancTthe Root

the Square, and Cube, will all fall forwards towards the end of the Line

But if it falls on the last but t as it doth in 17280, then the Unit* may be placed at 1

in the Beginning of the Line, and the Cube in the second Length; or else the Unit may be

flj undTr Sft F £he ^ and th£ Qlbe " th£ first Pa " &lt;* the Line ' But ifTlast

k ?in the End i of ^l' g Yu^'u**^ I728 °°' the Unit must aIwa 7 3 be P^ed at
10 in the End of the Line and then the Root, the Square, and Cube, will all fall back-
wards and be found in the second Part, between the Midd le 1 , and the End of the Line Bv
theft Rules it appears, , « ,' Cube Root of 8 is 2, the Cube Root of 27 is 3, h ^ Cube
Ro^of6 4 is4,of I25 ^, o, 2I 6is6, of 345 is 7&gt; of 5x2 is 8, of 7/9 b 9, of ^ 1000

CHAP. II.

Of the Conftru&ion and Use of the Four-Foot Gauging-Rod.

T v/llc 1 ^' r Wh n fe U ? is ;° find the Quantities of Liquors contained in any kinds of
and about of an t" i Y f made ° f Bo f Wo ° d ' and con »^ of Your Rules, each a Foot long
Rod is rendered W F TT' J °T d t0 P? er b * three Brass J oints &gt; b / whic " ™»ns the
wheVk^ When thefour Rules - ¥** opened; and but one Foot

for Wi?/ fi i rft FaCC ° f rh R I ° d , are pIaced two Dia § onal Lines » °ne for Beer, and the other «.-*
Zl ^ ' ft m ™ ns °{ whlch th e Content of any common Vessel in Beer or Wbe Gal ons S ' 4&lt;

In erf cl^ tt^adT^V^ W ? *' ^^ ° f the V ^l SS'S
ftinfl-Sn «? 1- t Hea { 01 the Vessel WIth th e opposite Staves to the Bung-hole. For di-

OnThe f av* ^t IS . Wrk there ° n Beer and W ™ Gallons.
Line exprem™ rl^T ' f^ are ' a Line of In ^es, and the Gauge Line, which is a Fig.r.

bead" L fortndmAow mf rlf °* F"? '&gt;■ ** firi *' at the end of whic * " ™ Hogf- Fig- 6
it's Axis p rallel ro ^H?" 7 ^ ^ *j ?• * Ho g* ead &gt; when it is not full, lying with
fyin- a But IvJna f 1 T- ?J e second Llne ' at the End ° f which is writ B. L . figni-
how^rnueh lJS£ is^/nr ^^ aS p that so 5 the ^^ The thi ^ d Line is to find

b. s. ^^7*irs n £ m up a Butt when ic is ftandin s- At the End ° f k is wic

wSttinTF^^JS^ °^ th p Ga "gi n S- R o d a ^ three Scales of Lines, to find the Fig. 7 ,

They are dift 3fl5 t^"'^ ^ Iy,ng W ' lth their Axes P ara,lei t0 the Horizon -
/ diitiDguiflied by the Letters F. K. B. fignify ing a Firkin, Kilderkin, and Barrel.

Construction



20



Of the Confiruciion and Uses Book I,

Construction of the izvo Diagonal Lines.
Thefe two Diagonal Lines are put upon this Gauging-Rod, in the fame manner that our Author, in the last life of the Line ot Solids in the second Book directs, for putting on the Diagonals on his Gauging-Rod, viz. by taking the Diagonal of some VeiTel that is fimi- lar, or nio-hly similar to the Vessels, whole Contents in Beer, or Wine Gallons, are after- wards, by means of them, to be found ; and then knowing how many Gallons in Beer and Wine the aforsaid VeiTel contains, which Gallons must be let against the Inches, or Parts of Inches of their Diagonals Length, on the Diagonal-Face of the Gauging-Rod. Now to find how many Inches, or Parts, the Diagonal of any other similar Velsel must be, when it's Content in Beer and Wine-Gallons is given ; you must fay, As the Content of the first Vef- fel, which is known, is to the Cube of the Length of it's Diagonal ; So is the Content of that other similar Vessel, in Beer or Wine-Gallons, to the Cube of the Length of it's Diagonal : the Cube-Root of which extracted, will give the Length of the Diagonal fought. As for Example, suppose a little VeiTel similar, or nighly similar to Englijh Vessels of a usual Form, contains i Beer Gallon, or about i ~ Wine Gallon, and the Diagonal is found to be 7.75 Inches-, what will be the Diagonal of a similar VeiTel, containing 2 Beer Gallons, or 2.8 Wine Gallons ? Say, As 1 Gallon is to the Cube of 7.7 5, which is 465.48437, So is 2 Gal- lons to the Cube of the Diagonal fought, 930.96875, whose Root will be 9.72 Inches, and so much will be the Length of the Diagonal : therefore fet 2 Beer Gallons on the Diagonal Face of the Rod, against 9.72 Inches. In this manner may the Diagonal Face of the Rod be divided from 1 Beer Gallon to 240, and from 1 Wine Gallon to 300, and fubdivided in half Gallons, as on the Rod.

Confiruciion of the Gauge-Line on the second Face of the Rod.

On this Line is fet the Gallons, and hundred Parts of Gallons, that any Cylinder, an Inch deep, and any Inches and Parts, from 1 to 46 in Diameter, contains of Ale. As for Ex- ample i against 1.9 Indus ftands .01 of a Gallon, denoted by a Dot ; against 2.63 Inches frauds .02 of a Gallon. The Tenths of the Gallons are denoted by the Figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 13c. as .1 of a Gallon is fet against ^.^6 Inches ; .2 against 8.44 Inches, and 1 Gallon against 18.95 Inches, as per Figure. The Conftruction of this Line is thus : Because 282 solid In- ches make an Ale Gallon, therefore the Diameter of a Cylinder, one Inch deep, whose Con- tent is an Ale Gallon, or 282 solid Inches, will be 18.95 Inches •, whence against 18.95 In- ches, on the fame Face of the Gauging-Rod, fet, on the Line drawn to contain the Divisions of the Gauge-Line, 1 Gallon. Now to find the Diameter of a Cylinder one Inch deep, that shall contain the .01 Part of a Gallon, fay, As 1 Gallon is to the .01 Part of a Gallon, So is the the Square of 18.95 Inches, which is 359, to the Square of the Diameter of the Cylin- der, containing the hundredth Part of a Gallon, which will be found by extracting the square Root of that Quantity 1.9 Inch : therefore fet the Hi ft Dot against 1.9 of an Inch. Again, to find against what Inches, or Parts, .02 of a Gallon must be placed, fay, As 1 is to .02, So is 359 to the Square of the Number of Inches, or Parts, whose Root extracted will give 2.63 Inches ; against which make a second Dot for .02 of a Gallon. In this manner pro- ceed for all the other Divisions on the Gauge-Line, always making 1 and 359 the two first Terms of the Proportion, and the Gallons or Parts the third ; so shall the fourth be the Square of the Inches, or Parts, that the Gallons, or Parts exprefled in the third Term, are to be fet against. The Reason of the aforsaid Porportion is, that Cylinders, of equal Alti- tudes, are to each other as their Bases, and Circles as the Squares of their Diameters.

Confiruciion of the Scales on the third and fourth Faces.

The first Scale of Lines on the third Face, which ferves for finding the Gallons wanting in a Hogfliead pofited with it's Axis parallel to the Florizon, or lying down, contains the Divisions from 1 Gallon to 54 Gallons, which is the Number of Ale-Gallons a Hogfliead contains when full.

The second Scale of Lines, on the fame Face, containing the Divisions from 1 Gallon to 108 Gallons, which are the Number of Ale-Gallons contained in a Butt, is for the fame Use as the first Scale of Lines when the Butt is lying.

The third Scale, likewise numbered from 1 Gallon to 108, is for finding how many Gallons is wanting in a Butt ftanding upright.

The three Scales of Lines, on part of the fourth Face, are, as I have already said, for finding the Wants in a Firkin, Kilderkin, and Barrel lying down, in Ale-Gallons. The rea- dieft way to make the Divisions of either of these Scales of Lines for their correfpondent Vef- fels, when lying down, as for a Hogfhead, is to pour in first one Gallon of Water, and then put the Rod downright into the Bung-hole to the opposite Staves •, then where the Surface of the Water cuts the third Face of the Rod (because the Scale of Lines for the Hogfliead is on that Face) make the Division for 1 Gallon •, then pour in another Gallon, and where the Surface of the Water cuts the Rod, make the Division for 2 Gallons. Again, pour in another Gallon, and where the Surface of the Water cuts the Rod, make the Division for three Gallons. Proceed thus, by pouring in of one Gallon fucceflively after another, and mak-



ing



Chan. 2. of the Four-Foot Gauging-Rod. 21

ing of Divisions at every Place in the Face of the Rod, to which the Water arifes, until the Hothead be full, and then the Scale for a Hogfhead, on the third Face, will be divided, proceed, in the fame manner, in making the Divisions for the other Scales of Lines used in rinding the Wants in the several Vessels aforementioned lying down. And taking off the Head'of a Butt that is (landing, and pouring of Water in the fame manner as in the Hogf- head, putting the Rod downright into the Butt, and making Divisions on the Rod, as was done for the Hogfhead, the Line will be finifhed, when figured.

Note, The Divisions for Half-Gallons, marked by long Dots on the fourth Face, are made by pouring in of Flalf-Gallons fucceffively, &c.

USE of the Diagonal Lines on the Gauging- Rod. To find the Content of a Vessel in Beer or Wine- Gallons.

Put the brafed End of the Gauging-Rod into the Bung-hole of the Cafk, with the Diago-
nal Lines upwards, and thruft the brafed End to the meer.»g of the Head and Staves.

Then with Chalk make a Mark on the middle of the Bung- hole of the Vessel, and also on
the Diagonal Lines of the Rod, right against, or over one another, when the brafed End is
thruft home to the Head and Staves.

Then turn the Gauging-Rod to the other End of the VefTel, and thruft the brafed End home
to the End as before.

And fee if the Mark made on the Gauging-Rod come even with the Mark made on the
Bung- Hole, when the Rod was thruft to the other End ; which if it be, the Mark made on
the Diagonal Lines, will, on the fame Lines, fhew the whole Content of the Cafk in Beer or
Wine-Ga'lons.

But if the Mark first made on the Bung-hole be not right against that made on the Rod, when put the other way ; then right against the Mark made on the Bung-hole, make another on the Diagonal Lines: then the Division on the Diagonal Line^ between the two Chalks, will fhew the Vessel's whole Content in Beer or Wine-Gallons. As for Example ; if the Dia- gonal Line of a Vessel be 28 Inches 4 Tenths, it's Content in Beer-Gallons will be near 51, and in Wine-Gallons 62.

But if a VeiTel be open, as a Half-Barrel, Tun, or Copper, and the Meafure from the middle on one Side, to the Head and Staves, be 38 Inches, the Diagonal Line gives 122 Beer-Gallons-, half of which, viz. 6i f is the Content of the open Half-Tub.

But if you have a large Vessel, as a Tun, or Copper, and the Diagonal Line, taken by a long Rule, prove 70 Inches ; then the Content of that VeiTel may be found thus :

Every Inch, at the Beginning-End of the Diagonal Line, call 10 Inches, then 10 Inches be- comes 100 Inches.

And every Tenth of a Gallon call 100 Gallons; and every whole Gallon, with a Figure, call 1000 Gallons. Example, at 44.8 Inches, on the Diagonal Beer-Line, is 200 Gallons j so also at 4 Inches 48 Parts, now called 44 Inches 8 Tenths, is juft two Tenths of a Gallon, now called 200 Gallons.

Also if the Diagonal Line be 76 Inches and 7 Tenths, a clofe Cafk, of so great a Diago-
nal, will hold 1000 Beer-Gallons: but an open Cafk but half so much, viz. 500 Beer-
Gallons.

For reducing of Wine-Gallons to Beer-Gallons, or, vice verfa, by Infpection, this may b«
done.

Thus 30 Wine- Gallons, is 24 4. Beer-Gallons, &c.

USE of the Gauge- Line.

USE I. To find the Content of any Cylindrical Vessel in Ale-Gallons. Seek the Diameter of the VeiTel in the Inches, and juft against it, on the Gauge-Line, is the Quantity of Ale-Gallons contained in one Inch deep : then this multiplied by the Length of the Cylinder, will give it's Content in Ale-Gallons. For Example ; suppose the Length of the Vessel be 32.06, and the Diameter of it's Base 25 Inches, what is the Content in Ale- Gallons ? Right against 25 Inches, on the Gauge- Line, is 1 Gallon, and .745 of a Gallon ; which multiplied by 32.06, the Length, gives 55.9447 Gallons for the Content of the Vessel.

USE II. The Bung-Diameter of a Hogfhead is 25 Inches, the Head-Diameter 22 Inches, and the Length 32.06 Inches ; to find the Quantity of Ale-Gallons contained in it.

Seek 25, the Bung-Diameter, on the Line of Inches, and right against it, on the Gauge- Line, you will find 1.745 '&gt; take 4. of it, which is .580, and fet it down twice. Seek 22 In- ches, the Head Diameter, and against it you will find, on the Gauge-Line, 1.356; 4 of which added to twice .580, gives 1.6096; which multiplied by the Length 32.06, the Prod uct will be 51.603776, the Content in Ale-Gallons. This Operation supposes, that the aforsaid Hogfhead is in the Figure of the middle Fruftum of a Spheroid.

The Use of the Lines on the two other Faces of the Rod, is very eafy; for you need but put it downright into the Bung-hole (if the VeiTel you defire to know the Quantity of Ale- Gallons contained therein be lying), to the opposite Staves ; and then where the Surface of the Liquor cuts any one of the Lines appropriated for that VeiTel, will be the Number of Gallons contained in that Vessel.

Of the ConftruElion and Use of EverardV Sliding- Rule for Gauging.

THIS Inflrument is commonly made of Box, exactly a Foot long, one Inch broad, and about fix Tenths of an Inch thick. It confifts of three Parts, viz. A Rule, and two small Scales or Sliding- Pieces to Aide in it •, one on one Side, and the other on the other : So that when both the Sliding- Pieces are drawn out to their full Extent, the whole will be three Foot long, fig. s. On the first broad Face of this Inflrument are four Lines of Numbers •, the first Line of

Numbers confifts of two Radius's, and is numbered i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 1. and then 2, 3, 4, 5, &c. to 10. On this Line are placed four Brass Center Pins, the first in the first Ra- dius, at 2150.42, and the third likewise at the fame Number taken in the feeond Radius, having MB fet to them-, fignifying, that the aforsaid Number reprefents the Cubic Inches in a Malt Bufhel : the feeond and fourth Center Pins are fet at the Numbers 282 on each Ra- dius ; they have the Letter A fet to them, fignifying that the aforsaid Number 282 is the Cu- bic Inches in an Ale-Gallon. Note, The little long black Dots, over the Center Pins, are put directly over the proper Numbers. This Line of Numbers hath A placed at the End thereof, and is called A for Diftinction-fake.

The feeond and third Lines of Numbers which are on the Sliding-Piece (and which may be called but one Line), are exactly the fame with the first Line of Numbers: They are both, for Diftinction, called B. The little black Dot, that is hard by the Division 7, on the first Radius, having Si fet after it, is put directly over .707, which is the Side of a Square in- fcribed in a Circle, whose Diameter is Unity. The black Dot hard by 9, after which is writ S e&gt; is fet diredly over .886, which is the Side of a Square equal to the Area of a Cir- cle, whose Diameter is Unity. The black Dot that is nigh W, is fet directly over 231, which is the Number of Cubic Inches in a Wine-Gallon. Laftly, the black Dot by C, is fet directly over 3.14, which is the Circumference of a Circle, whose Diameter is Unity.

The fourth Line, on the first Face, is a broken Line of Numbers of two Radius's, num- bered 2, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, the Number 1 is fet against M B on the first Radius. This Line of Numbers hath MD let to it, fignifying Malt Depth. Fig. 9. On the feeond broad Face of this Rule, are,

I. A Line of Numbers of but one Radius, which is numbered 1, 2, 3, &c. to 10, and hath D fet at the End thereof for distinguishing it. There are upon it four Brass Center Pins : the first, to which is fet W G, is the Gauge-Point for a Wine-Gallon •, that is, the Diameter of a Cylinder, whose Height is an Inch, and Content 231 Cubic Inches, or a Wine- Gallon, which is 17.15 Inches. The feeond Center-Pin AG ftands at the Gauge-Point for an Ale-Gallon, which is 18.95 Inches. The third Center-Pin M S ftands at 46.3, which is the Side of a Square, whose Content is equal to the Inches in a solid Bufhel. The fourth Center-Pin M R is the Gauge-Point for a Malt Bufhel, which is 52.32 Inches.

II. Two Lines of Numbers on the Sliding-Piece, which are exactly the fame as on theSliding-Piece on the other Side the Rule, they are called C. The first black Dot fomethingon this Side the Division of the Number 8, to which is fet G c, is fet to .795, which is theArea of a Circle whose Circumference is Unity ; and the feeond, to which is fet G d, ftandsat .785, the Area of a Circle, whose Diameter is Unity.

III. Two Lines of Segments, each numbered 1, 2, 3 to iOo-, the first is for finding the Ullage of a Cafk, taken as the middle Fruftum of a Spheroid, lying with it's Axis parallel to the Horizon, and the other for finding the Ullage of a Cafk ftanding.

Fig, 10. Again, on one of the narrow Faces of this Rule, is, (1.) A Line of Inches, numbered r,

2 &gt; 3&gt; 4» &c- to 12. each of which is fubdivided into ten equal Parts. (2.) A Line, by means of which, and the Line of Inches, is found a mean Diameter for a Cafk in the Figure of the middle Fruftum of a Spheroid ; it is figured 1, 2, 3, &c. to 7. at the End thereof is writ Spheroid. (3.) A Line for finding the mean Diameter of a Cafk in the Figure of the mid- dle Fruftum of a parabolic Spindle, which by Gaugers is called the feeond Variety of Cajks ; it is numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and at it's End is writ, 2 Variety. (4.) A Line, by means of which may be found the mean Diameter of a Cafk of the third Variety ; that is, a Cafk in the Figure of two parabolic Conoids abutting upon a common Base : it is numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, at the End thereof is writ 3 Variety.

Fig. 11. And on the other narrow Face, is, (1.) A Foot divided into 100 equal Parts, every ten of

which are numbered ; F M ftands at the beginning of it, fignifying Foot-Meafure. (2.) A Line of Inches, like that before fpoken of, having I M fet to the Beginning thereof, fignifying Inch-Meafure. (3.) A Line for finding the mean Diameter for the fourth Variety of Calks, which is the middle Fruftum of two Cones, abutting upon one common Base ; it is numbered l i 2 &gt; 3&gt; 4&gt; 5&gt; 6. and at the Beginning thereof is writ F C, fignifying Fruftum of a Cone.

Thefe are all the Lines on the four Faces of the Rule •, but on the Backfide of the two S!idin&lt;*-Pieces are a Line of Inches from 13 to 36, when the two Sliding- Pieces are put End- ways together, and against that the correfpondent Gallons, or hundred Parts, that any small Tub, or such like open Veflfel (from 13 to 36 Inches Diameter) will contain at one Inch deep i it's Conftruction is the fame as before delivered, in fpeaking of the Line of Ale Area on the Four-foot Gauging-Rod.

All the Lines of Numbers, before-defcribed, may be put upon the Faces of this Sliding- Ruie, as directed in the Conftruction of the Line of Numbers on Gunter's Scale ; only you must obferve, that the first Radius of the broken Line of Numbers MD, begins directly un- der MB, and ends directly under the other MB; and that when either of the Lines of Numbers A or B are made, the Line M D from them may also be made. Example-* The Di- ftance from 1 to 2, on the Line A, laid off from 1 (towards the Left Hand) to 2, on the Line iVi D, will give the Division 2; the Distance from 1 to 3, on the Line A, will be equal to the Distance from 1 to 3 •, the contrary way on the Line MD: underftand the fame of other Divisions and Subdivifions. The reason of thus breaking this Line of Numbers, I shall fhew in it's Use.

The Line of Segments for the middle Fruflum of a Spheroid lying, may be put upon the Sliding- Rule in the following manner : Take some Vessel lying, as a Butt, and fill it full of Water, then find it's Content in Ale or Wine-Gallons (for it matters not which), take also it's Bung-Diameter very exactly in Inches, or Tenths of Inches. Now to find against what Number, on the Line of Numbers of the Sliding-Piece, any Division of the Line of Segments mud (land •, suppose the Division 1, fay, As Unity is to .01, So is the Content of the afore* said Vessel in Gallons to a fourth Number (which will be the Gallons, or Gallons and Parts that are contained in such a Segment of the VefTel, as .01 is of a similar VefTel, whose Area is supposed Unity •,) then let out of the VefTel as many Gallons of .Water as that fourth Pro- portional directs, and having taken the Dry Inches, fay, By the Rule of Three, As the Bung- Diameter ; s to those Dry Inches found, So is 100 to a fourth Number ; which will be the Number on the Line C, against which the Division 1 on the Segment-Line must ftand.

Again, to find where the Division 2 must ftand on the Line of Segments, fay, As 1 is to .02, So is the Content of the aforsaid VefTel to the Gallons that must be taken out of it ; then fay, As the Bung-Diameter is to the Dry Inches, So is 100 to the Number on the Line C, against which the Division 2 mult ftand. Proceed in this manner for finding the Divisions 3$ 4, 5&gt; 6, 7, 8, 9, and when you come to find where the Division 10 must ftand, you must fay, As Unity is to the VefTel's Content, So is .1 to the Number of Gallons to be taken out of the VefTel, and go on as before. Moreover, to find where the Division 20 must ftand, fay, As 1 is to the Content, So is .2 to the Number of Gallons to be taken out of the VefTel, £JV« In this manner may the Divisions to 100 be found.

To find where the first Subdivifion before 1 must ftand, fay, As 1 is to the VefTel's Con- tent, So is .002 to the Number of Gallons to be let out of the VefTel, and proceed as at first directed. And for the second Subdivifion, make .003 the third Term of the Rule of Three, and proceed as before.

For the Subdivifions between 1 and 2, 2 and 3, &c. suppose 1 to be .0100, then the first Division from 1 will be .011, the second .012, the third .013, &c. which must be made the third Terms of the first Rule of Three, for finding where any of those Subdivifions must ftand. And for the Subdivifions between 10 and 20, 20 and 30, you must suppose 10 to be .10, and 20 to be .20; then the first Subdivifion from 10 will be .11, the second .12, the third .13, &?*. which will be the third Terms in the first Rule of Three, for finding where- abouts these Divisions must ftand.

The other Segment- Line, on the fame Face of the Rule, may be made in the fame mannef as this, by fetting the aforsaid VefTel upright, and making use of the Length inftead of the Bung-Diameter.

The Conftruction of the four Lines on the narrow Faces of this Rule, is from the Rules that Everard hath laid down for finding the Contents of the four Varieties of Cafks. For, (1.) If there is a Cafk in the Form of the middle Fruftum of a Spheroid, half the Difference of the Squares of the Bung and Head-Diameter, added to the Sum and half Sum of the said Squares, divided by 3, will be the Square of the mean Diameter for a fpheroidal VefTel ; the Root of which will be the mean Diameter. (2.) Three Tenths of the Differences of the Squares of the Bung and Head-Diameters, added to the Sum and half Sum of the said Squares, and the whole divided by 3, will be the Square of the mean Diameter of a Cafk of the second Vanety. (3.) To the Sum and half Sum of the Squares of the Bung and Head-Diameters, add one Tenth of the Difference of the said Squares, which Sum, divided by 3, gives the Square of the mean Diameter of a Cafk of the third Variety. (4.) And Laftly, from the Sum and half Sum of the Squares of the Bung and Head-Diameters, fubftract half the Square of the Difference of Diameters, and the Remainder, divided by 3, will be the Square of the mean Diameter for the fourth Variety of Cafks,

USE I. One Number being given to be multiplied by another ; to find the Producl.

Notation on the Lines of Numbers upon this Rule, is the fame as before was fhewn in the Use of the Carpenter's Rule ; therefore I mall not here repeat it, but proceed to folve this Use by the following Examples : Suppose 4 is to be multiplied by 6: Set 1 upon the Line of Numbers B, to 4 upon the Line A, and then against 6 upon B, is 24, the Product fought upon A. Again, to multiply 26 by 68, fet 1 upon B to 26 upon Aj then against 68 upon B) is 1768 on A.

Note, The Product of any two Numbers will have so many Places as there are in both the Numbers given, except when the lefTer of them does not exceed so many of the first Figures of the Product, for then it will have one less.

USE II. One Number being given to be divided by another, to find the Quotient.

Suppose 24 is to be divided by 4, what is the Quotient ? Set 4 upon B, to 1 upon A ; then against 24 upon B, is 6 upon A, which will be the Quotient.

Again, let 952 be divided by 14: To find the Quotient, fet 14 upon A, to 1 upon B, and against 952 upon A, you will have 68 the Quotient upon B.

Note, The Quotient will always confift of so many Figures as the Dividend hath more than the Divisor, except when the Divisor does not exceed so many of the first Figures of the Dividend j for then it will have one Place more.

USE III. Three Numbers being given, to find a fourth in a diretl Proportion.

If 8 gives 20, what will 22 give ? Set 8 upon B, to 20 upon A j and then against 22 on B, ftands 55 upon A, which is the fourth Number fought.

USE IV. To find a mean Proportional between two given Numbers.

Example. Let the two Numbers be 50 and 72 •, fet 50 upon C, to 72 upon D ; and then against 72 upon C, is 60 upon D, which is the Geometrical Mean between 50 and 72.

USE V. To find the square Root of any Number under 1 000000 The Extraction of the square Root, by help of this Instrument, is eafier than any of the aforsaid Uses : for if the Lines C and D be applied one to another, so that 10 at the End of D, be even with 10 at the End of C •, then those two Lines, thus applied, are like a Table of square Roots, (hewing the square Root of any Number by Inflection only : for against any Number upon C, you have the square Root thereof upon D.

Note, When the Number given confifts of 1, 3, 5, or 7 Places of Integers, feek it in the first Radius on the Line C, and against it you have the Root required upon D. Example, Let the Number given be 144, I find this on the first Radius of the Line C, and against it is 12, the Root fought upon the Line D.

USE VI. The Diameter or Circumference of a Circle being given, to find either.

Set 1 on the Line A against 3. 141, (where is writ C) on the Line B, and against any Dia- meter, on the Line A, you have the Circumference on the Line B, and contrariwife : As fup- pofe the Diameter of a Circle be 20 Inches, the Circumference will be 62.831 j and if the Circumference be 94.247, the Diameter will be 30.

USE VII. The Diameter of any Circle being given \ to find the Area, in Inches, or in

Ale or Wine- Gallons.

Example. Let the Diameter be 20 Inches, what is the Area? Set 1 upon D to .785, (where is fet O d) and then against 20 upon D, is 3 14. 159, the Area required. Now to find that Circle's Area in Ale-Gallons, fet 18.95 (marked AG) upon D to 1 upon C ; then against the Diameter 20, upon D, is the Number of Ale-Gallons upon C, which is 1.11 Gal- lons. Underftand the fame for Wine-Gallons, by the proper Gauge-Point.

USE VIII. The tranfverfe and conjugate Diameters of an Ellipfis being given, to find

the Area in Ale-Gallons.

Example. Let the tranfverfe Diameter be 72 Inches, and the Conjugate 50 : Set S59-°5i the Square of the Gauge-Point, upon B, to one of the Diameters (suppose 50 upon A) ; then against the other Diameter 72 upon B, you will have the Area upon A, which, in this Ex- ample, will be 10.02 Ale-Gallons, the Content of this Ellipfis at one Inch deep. The like may be done for Wine-Gallons, if inftead of 359.05, you use 249.1 1, the Square of the Gauge- Point for Wine-Gallons.

USE IX. To find the Area or Content of a Triangular Superficies in Ale Gallons.

Let the Base of the Triangle be 260 Inches, and the Perpendicular, let fall from the oppo- fite Angle, be 1 10 Inches ; fet 282 (marked A) upon B, to 130, half the Base upon A ; then against no upon B, is 50.7 Gallons upon A.

USE X. To find the Content of an Oblong in Ale Gallons. Sappofe one of the Sides is 130 Inches, and the other 180 ; fet 282 upon B, to 180 upoli A-, 'then again ft 130 upon B, is 82.97 Ale Gallons, the Area required.

USE XI. The Side of any regular Polygon king given, to find the Content thereof in

In any regular Polygon, the Perpendicular let fall from the Center to one of the Sides, be- Itl g found and multiplied by half the Sum of the Sides, gives the Area. Example, in a Pen- tagon, suppose the Side is an Inch, then the Perpendicular let fall from the Center, will be found'. 837, in faying, As the Sine of half the Angle at the Center, which in this Polygon is 06 Deorecs, is to half the given Side .5 -, So is the Sine of 36 Degrees taken from 90, which is rA. l?i grees, to the Perpendicular aforsaid : whence the Area of a Pentagon Polygon, each of "whose Sides is Unity, will be 1.72 Inches ; which, divided by 282, gives .0061 the Ale. Ga Ions in that Polygon. By the fame Method you may find the Area of any other Polygon, whole Side is Unity in Ale Gallons. Now, suppose the Side of a Pentagon is 50 Inches, What is the Content thereof in Ale Gallons ? Set 1 upon D, to .006! uponC; then against 50 upon D, you have the Area 15.252 Ale Gallons upon C.

USE XII. To find the Content of a Cylinder in Ale Gallons.

Suppose the Diameter of the Base of a Cylinder is 120 Inches, and the perpendicular Height 36 Inches. Set the Gauge- Point (A G) to the Height 36 upon C ; then against 120 the Diameter, upon D, is 1443.6 the Content in Ale Gallons.

USE XIII. The Bung and Head Diameters, together with the Length of any Cafk, being given, to find it's Content in Ale or Wine Gallons.

Suppose the Length of a Cafk taken, as the middle Fruftum of a Spheroid be 40 Inches, it's Head-Diameter 24 Inches, and Bung-Diameter 32 Inches. Subftradt the Head-Diameter from the Bung-Diameter, and the Difference is 8 : then look for 8 Inches on the Line of In- ches, upon the first narrow Face of the Rule ; and against it on the Line Spheroid ftands 5.6 Inches, which added to the Head-Diameter 24, gives 29.6 Inches for that Calk's mean Dia- meter : thin fet th&lt; Gauge-Point for Ale (marked AG) upon D, to 40 upon v_ ; and against 29.6 upon D, is 97 45 the Content of that Cafk in Ale-Gallons. If the Gauge Point for "Wine (marked W G) is used inftead of that for Ale, you will have the Veifel's Content in Wine-Gallons.

If a Cafk, suppose of the fame Dimenfions as the former, be taken as the middle Fruftum of a paraboiick Spindle, which is of the second Variety, you mutt fee what Inches and Parts on the Line marked Second Variety, Hand against the Difference of the Bung and Head-Diameters, which, in this Example, is 8 •, and you will find 5.1 Inches, which added to 24 the Hrad- Diameter, makes 29.1 Inches the mean Diameter of the Cafk ; then let the Rule as before, and against 29.1 Inches, you will have 94.12 Ale-Gallons for the Content of the Cafk.

Again •, if a Calk, suppose of the fame Dimenfions with either of the former ones, be taken as the middle Fruftum of 2 paraboiick Conoids, which is one of the third Variety, you will find against 8 Inches (.the Difference of the Bung and Head-Diameters), on the Line of Inches, Hands 4.57 Inches, on the Line called 3d Variety, which added to 24, the Head-Diameter, gives 28. 57 Inches for the Cafk's mean Diameter: proceed as at first, and you will find the Content of this Cafk to be 90.8 Ale Gallons.

Laftly, If a Cafk, fuppole of the fame Dimenfions as before, is taken as the Fruftums of 2 Cones, which is the fourth Variety, look on the other narrow Face of the Rule for 8 Inches* upon the Line of Inches ; and against it, on the Line F. C, you will find 4.1 Inches, which added to 24, gives 28.1 for the mean Diameter of this Cafk: proceeding as at first, and you will find the Content of this Calk, in Ale-Gallons, to be 87.93.

USE XIV. There is a Cafk poftted with it's Axis parallel to the Horizon, or Lying, in part empty ; suppose it's Content is 97.455 Ale-Gallons, the Bung-Diameter 32 Inches, and the dry Inches 8, to find the Quantity of Liquor in the Cafk.

As the Bung-Diameter upon C, is to 100 upon the Line of Segments L, So is the dry Inches on C, to a fourth Number on the Line of Segments : then As 100 upon B, is to the Calk s whole Content upon A, So is that fouith Number to the Liquor wanting to fill up the Cafk ; which, fubftrafted from the Liquor that the Cafk holds, gives the Liquor in the Cafk. Example; Set 32, the Bung-Diameter, on C, to 100 on the Segment Line L; then against 8, the Dry-Inches on C, Hands 17.6 on the Segment Line. Now fet 100 upon B, to the La k s whole Content upon A •, and against 17.6 upon B, you have 16.5 Gallons upon A ; and iubftrafting the said Gallons from 97.45, the Vessel's whole Content, the Liquor in the Cafk will be 80.95 Gallons. S /, E r XV * Su P°f e the tforefaid CajFs Axis be perpendicular to the Horizon, or upright, and the Length of it be 40 Inches : to find how much liquor there will be in the Cafk, when 10 of those Inches are dry.

Set 40 Inches, the Length, on the Line C, to 100 on the Segment Line S ; and again ft 10, the Dry-Inches, on the Line C, ftands 24.2 on the Segment Line S. Now fet 100 upon B, to 9J-4-55&gt; tne Cafk's whole Content, upon A ; and against 24.2 on B, you will have 23.5 Gallons, which are the Gallons wanting to fill up the Cafk, and being fubftracted from the whole Content 97-A-55-, gives 73-955 Gallons for the Quantity of Liquor remaining in the Cafk.

USE XVI. To find the Content of any right-angled Parallelepipedon (which may repre- fent a Cijiern, or Uting-Fat) in Malt-Bujhels.

Suppose the Length of the Base is 80 Inches, the Breadth 50, and the Depth 9 Inches, Set the Breadth 50 on B, to the Depth 9 on C ; then against the Length 80 on A, (lands 16.8 Bufhels on the Line B, which are the Number of Bufhels of Malt contained in the afore* laid Ciftern.

The broken Line of Numbers M. D, is so fet under the Lines A or B, that any Number on A or B multiplied by the Number directly under it on the Line M D, will always be equal to 2150.42, the Number of Inches in a Malt-Bufhel : from whence the Reason of the aforsaid Operation for finding the Number of Malt-Bufhcls, may be thus deduced. Let us call the Breadths, the Length £, the Depth c t and the Number of Inches in a Malt-Bufhel/;

then the Malt-Bufhels in any Utenfil of the aforsaid Figure, will be expreffed by — j- . But

by the Sliding- Rule the Operation is, to fet the Breadth a t to the Depth c j that is (from

the aforementioned Property of the broken Line of Numbers M D), to — on the Line A j

and then against the Length £, on the Line A, will the Number of Malt-Bufhels Hand : therefore the Operation is but finding the fourth Term of this Analogy, by means of the

THIS Rule is framed three Ways •, for some have the two Rulers compofing them Aiding by one another, like Glaziers Rules ; and fometimes there is a Groove made in one Side of a Two- Foot Joint-Rule, in which a thin fliding Piece being put, the Lines put upon this Rule, are placed upon the said Side. And lastly, one Part Aiding in a Groove made along the Middle of the other, the Length of each of which is a Foot: the Form of this last being reprefented by Fig. 12.

Upon the Aiding Side of the Rule are four Lines of Numbers ; three are double Lines, or Lines of Numbers to two Radius's, and one a Angle broken Line of Numbers, marked by the Letters A, B, C, and D.

The three double Lines of Numbers A, B, C, are figured 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ; and then 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10; they being the fame as the Line A, and the two Lines on the Sliding-Piece C, upon Everard\ Sliding- Rule i and their Conftruction, Use, and Manner of using, are also the fame.

The fingle Line of Numbers D, whose Radius is exactly equal to the two Radius's of ei- ther of the Lines of Numbers A, B, C, is broke, for eafier measuring of Timber, and figured thus, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40 •, this Line is called the Girt Line : from 4 to 5 it is di- vided into 10 Parts, and each Tenth into two Parts, and so on from 5 to 10 ; then from 10 to 20, it is divided-into 10 Parts, and each Tenth into 4 Parts, and so on from 20 to 40, at the End, which is right against 10, at the End of either of the double Lines of Numbers.

The Lines on the Back-side of this Rule, are these; a Line of Inch-Meafure from 1 to 12, each Inch being fubdivided into Plalfs, Quarters, and Half-quarters : another Line of Inch- Meafure from 1 to 12, and each Inch fubdivided into 10 equal Parts : a Line of Foot-Mea- fure, being one Foot divided into 100 equal Parts, and figured, 10, 20, 30, &c. to 100.

The Back-side of the Sliding-Piece is divided into Inches, Halfs, and Half-quarters, and figured from 12 to 24. ; so that it may be Aid out to 2 Foot, to measure the Length of any thing.

The Lines of Numbers, A, B, or C, being either of them conftructed (which fee in the Chapter concerning Gunter's Scale) the Line D, from thence, may cafily be conftructed.

For havin* fet 4 dire&ly under i, for the Beginning of the Line ; to find where any Divi- r fuppoftc, must be placed, take twice the Distance from 4 to 5, on either of the Ra- nk's of either of the Lines of Numbers A, B, C, and lay off from 4 that Extent, which will give the Division 5. Proceed thus for all the other Divisions and Subdivifions, by al- ways taking the double of them on the Lines A, B, or C.

fate, For the manner of Notation, on this Rule, fee the Line of Numbers on the Car- penters.

The Use of this Rule in measuring plain Superficies.

SECTION I.

U S E I. To measure a Geometrical Square.

Let there be a Square whose Sides are each 5 Feet •, fet 1 on the Line B, to 5 on the Line A ; then against 5 on the Line B, is 25 Feet the Content of the Square on the Line A.

U S E II. To measure a right angled Parallelogram, or Long-Square.

Lee there be a Parallelogram, whose longeft Side is 18 Feet, and fhorteft 10 •, fet 1 on the Line B, to 10 on the Line A ; then against 1 8 Feet on the Line B, is 180 Feet the Content on the Line A.

USE III. To measure a Rhombus.

Let the Side of a Rhombus be 12 Feet, and the Length of a Perpendicular let fall from one of the obtuse Angles, to the opposite Side, 9 Feet •, fet 1 on the Line B, to 12, the Length of the Side, on the Line A: then against 9, the Length of the Perpendicular on the Line B, is 108 Feet the Content.

USE IV. To measure a Rhomboides.

Suppose the Length of either of the longeft Sides of a Rhomboides to be 25 Feet, and the Length of the Perpendicular let fall from one of the obtuse Angles to the opposite longeft Side, is 8 Feet ; let 1 on the Line B, to 25, the Length, on the Line A j then against 8 Feet on the Line B, {lands 200 Feet the Content.

USE W. To measure a Triangle. Let the Base of a Triangle be 7 Feet, and the Length of the Perpendicular let fall from the opposite Angle to the Base, 4 Feet. Set 1 on the Line B, to 7 on the Line A; then against half the Perpendicular, which is 2, on the Line B, is 14 on the Line A, for the Content of the Triangle.

USE VI. The Diameter of a Circle being given, to find it's Content.

Let the Diameter of a Circle be %.$ Feet : fet 11 on the Girt-Line D, to g$ on the Line C -, then against 3.5 Feet on u, is 9.6 on the Line C, which is the Content in Feet of the said Circle.

The Reason of this Operation, is, that As the Square of 1 1, which is 121, is to 95 ; So is the Square of the Dumeter of any Circle, to it's Content. Alfo, from the Nature of the Lo- garithms, it is manifest, if any Number, taken on a fingleLine of Numbers (whether whole or broken, in the manner that the Line D is), be fet to another Number, taken on a double Line of Numbers of the fame Length •, that the Square of the Number taken on the fingle Line of Numbers, will be to the Number it is fet against-, on the double Line of Numbers, as the Square of any other Number, taken on the fingle Line of Numbers, to the Number against it on the double Line of Numbers.

USE VII. To find the Content of an Oval or Ellipjis.

Let the Tranfverfe, or longeft Diameter, be 9 Feet, and the Conjugate, or fhorteft Dia- meter, 4 Feet - to find the Content of this Ellipfis.

Theorem. The Content of every Ellipfis, is a mean Proportional between a Circle, whose Diameter is qcjual to the longeft Diameter of the Ellipfis, and a Circle whose Diameter is equal to th fhorteft Diameter of the fame Ellipfis ; as is manifest per Cor. 3. Prop. XI. Lib. 1 1. of Sturmy's Mathefis Enucleata.

Therefore a mean Proportional must first be found between 4 and 9, the longeft and fhorteft Diameters ; to do which by the Sliding-Rule, fet the greater of the two Numbers 9 on the Girt Line, to the fame Number on the Line C ; then against the leffer Number 4, on the fame Line C, is 6 the mean Proportional fought on the Girt-Line. Now we have only the Con- tent of a Circle to find, whose Diameter is 6 Feet •, which, when found, will be the Content of the Ellipfis fought : therefore (by the iaft Problem) fet 11 on the Girt-Line D, to 95 on the Line C; then against 6 Feet on the Girt-Line D, ftands on the Line C, 28.28 Feet for the Content of the aforsaid Ellipfis.

I he Reason of the Operation for finding a mean Proportional between two Numbers, as 4 and 9, is manifest from what I said in the last Use of the Property of a double and fingle

Line of Numbers Hiding by one another. And from this Theorem, viz. That if there are three Numbers continually proportional (as 4, 6, and 9), the Square of the greateft (as 81) is to the greateft (9), as the Square of the middle one (6), or the Rectangle under the Extremes (which is equal to it, per Prep. 20. Lib. 7. End.) is to the leffer Extreme (4).

This Use may be eafier folved at one Operation by the Lines A and B, thus •, fct 1.27 on the Line E, to the tranfverfe Axis 9 Feet, on the Line A : then against the Conjugate Axis 4, on the Line B, ftands 28.28 Eeet on the Line A, for the Content.

Note, The (landing Number 1.27, is the Quotient of 14 divided by 1 1 •, also as 14 is to 11, lb is the Rectangle under the tranfverfe and conjugate Axes of any Ellipfis to it's Area j whence the Reason of this Operation is eafily manifest.

SECTION II.

Of ' measuring Timber.

USE I. To measure Timber the common Way.

Take the Length in Feet, Half-feet (and if defired), in Quarters ; then measure half-way back again, where girt the Tree with a small Cord or Chalk- Line ; double this Line twice very even, and this fourth Part of the Girt, or Circumference, which is called the Girt, measure in Inches, Halfs, and Quarters of Inches-, but the Length mull be given in Feet, and the Girt in Inches. The Dimenfions being thus taken, the Tree is to be measured as square Timber, the Girt, or ~ of the Circumference being taken for the Side of the Square, in the following manner.

Always fet 12 on the Girt-Line D, to the Length in Feet on the Line C ; then against the Side of the Square, on the Girt-Line D, taken in Inches, you will find on the Line C the Content of the Tree in Feet.

Example I. Suppose the Girt of a Tree, in the middle, be 60 Inches, and the Length 30 Feet, What is the Content? Set 12 on the Girt-Line D, to 30 Feet on the Line C •, then against 15, the one fourth of 60, on the Girt-Line D, is 46.8 Feet the Content on the Line C.

Example II. A Piece of Timber is 15 Feet long, and -i of the Girt 42 Inches : Set 12 on the Girt- Line D, to 15 on the second Radius of the Line C; then against 42, at the Beginning of the Girt-Line D, is, on the Line C, 184 Feet, the Content fought.

Example III. The Length of a Piece is 9 Inches, and a Quarter of the Girt %$ Inches, What is the Content ? Now, because the Length is not a Foot, measure it by your Line of Foot Meafure, and fee what decimal Part of a Foot it makes, which will be .75-, then fet 12 on the Girt-Line, to 75 on the first Radius of the Line C j and against 35 on the Girt-Line D, is 6.4 Feet on the Line C, for the Content.

Example IV. A Rail is 18 Feet long, and the Quarter of the Girt 3 Inches : fet 12 on the Girt-Line D, to 18 on the first Radius of the Line C •, then against 30, which mult be taken for 3, on the Girt-Line D, is juft 1.12 Feet for the Content.

The Reason of the Operations of this Use, is manifest from what I said about the Property of the Lines D and C, in Use VI. and this Theorem, viz. that as 144, the square Inches in a Foot, is to the Content of the Square Base of a Parallelopipedon taken in Inches ; that is, to the Square of * of the Girt : So is the Length of a Parallelopipedon taken in Feet, to the Solidity of the said Parallelopipedon in Feet.

This Use may be fooner done by taking all the Dimenfions in Foot Meafure thus, count 10, 20, 30, 40, &c. on the Girt-Line to be 1, 2, 3, 4, &c. and then place 10 on the Girt-Line D (now called 1) to the Length of the Tree on the Line C, and against the Girt, in Foot Mea- fure, on the Girt-Line D, ftands the Content on the Line C.

Example I. Let the Length of a Tree be, as in the first Example foregoing, viz. 30 Feet, and the Girt 60 Inches, or 5 Feet, What is the Content? Set 10 (now called 1) on the Girt- Line D, to 30 Feet on the Line C ; then against 1.25 Feer, the one fourth of the Girt, on the Girt-Line 13, ftands 46.8 Feet on the Line C, for the Content, as before.

Example II. A Piece of Timber is 15 Feet long, and one fourth of the Girt is 42 Inches, or 3.5 Feet, What is the Content?

Set 10 on the Girt-Line, to 15 on the first Radius of the Line C ; then against 3.5 Feet on the Girt-Line, is 184 Feet on the Line C, the Content required.

Example III. A Length is 9.75 Feet, and ' of the Girt 39 Inches, or 3 Feet r *-| fet 10 on the Girt-Line to 9.75 on the Line Cj and against 3.2J Feet, on the Girt-Line J), is be- yond ico on the Line C : in this Cafe take half the Length, and then the CJntent found must be doubled, as here:

Set 10 on the Girt-Line, to (half of 9.75) 4.S7 ; and then against 3.25 is 51./,' ; the double or which is 103 Feer, the Concent required.

Note, If the Content of any Piece of Timber in Feet, be divided by 50, you have the Con- tent in Loads : but some will have a Load to be bur 40 fo'id Feet -, therefore you may take which of the two is molt cuitomaiv with you.

USE II. To measure Round Timber the true -way.

The manner of measuring Round Timber in the lad Use, being the common way, but not the true one, a? I have already laid in (peaking of the Carpenter's Rule: I shall now give you a Point on the Girt-Line D, which mud be used inftead of 12, which is 10.635, at which there ought to oe placed a little Brass Center-Pin: this 10.635 is the Side of a Square, equal to aCircie, whose Diameter is 12 Inches.

Example. Let a L&lt; rigth be (as in the f cond Example of the last Use) 15 Feet, and the 1 of the Girt 42 Inches : let the said Point 10.635, t0 l 5 tne Length ; then against 42, at the Beginning of the Gut Line, is 233 Feet for the Content fought : but by the common way, there anies only 184 Feet.

Note, As trie Area, or Content of a Circle (in Inches) whose Diameter is 12 Inches, is to the Length of any Cylinder in Feet ; So is the Square of of the Circumference of the Base of the Cylinder, in Indies, to tne (olid Content of the Cylinder in Feet.

Also the common Meafure is to the true Meafure, as u is to 14; that is, as the Area, or Content of a Circle, to the Squire of it's Diameter; which, from hence, will be eafily mani- felt : Call the Diameter of any Circle D, and 4- the Circumference C ; then the Content of the said Circle will be equal toDxC; therefore DxC is to DxD, as 11 is to 14. But the common Meafure (because the Length of the Piece is the fame) will be to the true Meafure, as C C, the Square of the Circumference, to D&lt;C the Content of the said Circle ; whence D xC niuft be to D \ as C is to D x C; and by comparing the Rectangles under the Means and Extremes, they will be found equal •, therefore what I proposed is true.

If the Girt of a Piece of Timber be taken in Feet, the oint for true Meafure is .886, or .89, which is the Side of a Square, equal to the Content of a Circle, whose Diameter is Unity And then, for the foregoing Example, the Length being 15 Feet, and [ of the Girt 42 Inches; fet the aforsaid Point 89 on the Girt-Line, to the Length 15 Feet on the Line

C, (in the fir ft Radius) then against 3.5 Feet (which is 35) on the Girt-Line D, is 233 Feet on the Line C, the true Content required.

USE III. To measure a Cube.

Let there be a Cube whose Sides are 6 Feet ; to find the Content: fet 12 on the G'rt-Line

D, to 6 on the Line C ; then against 72 Inches (the Inches in 6 Feet) on the Gin Luk D, is 216 Feet on the Line C, which is the Content required.

USE IV. To measure unequal fqttared Timber ; that is, if the Breadth and Depth are not equal.

Meafure the Length of the Piece, and th&lt; Breadth and Depth (at the End; in L cries ; then find a mean Proportional between the breadth and Depth of the Piece; Which n.e*n Propor- tional is the Side of a Square equal to the End of the Piece : which being found, trie iiece may be 'meafurcd as fqu are Timber.

Example I. Ls t there be a Piece of Timber whose Length is 13 Feet, the Bre tdth 23 In- ches, and the Eepth 13 Inches: fet 23 on the Girt-Line D, to 23 on tne Line C ; men a- gainft 13 on the Line C, is 17.35 on the Girt-Line D for the mean Proportional. Now again ; letting 12 on the Girt Line D, to 13 Feet, the Length, on the Line C ; then against 17.35 on tne Girt-Line D, is 27 Feet the Content required.

Example II. Let there be a Piece of Stone 7.4 Feet in Length, 30 Inches in Breadth, and 23 5 Deep: fet 30 Inches on the Girt-Line D, to 30 on the LineC; then against 23.5, on the Line C, is 26.5 on the Gut-Line D ; then let 12 on the Girt-Line D, to 7.4 on the Line C; and against 26.5, on the Girt Line, is 36 Feet the Content fought.

USE V. To find the Content of a Piece of Timber in Form of a triangular Prifm.

You mull fir ft find a mean Proportional between the Base, and half the Perpendicular of the triangular End, or between the Perpendicular and half the Base, both measured in Inches, and tiiat mean Proportional will be the Side of a Square equal to the Triangle. e

Then to find the Content, fet 12 on the Girt-Line D, to the Length in Feet on the Line of Numbers C ; and against the mean Proportional on the Girt-Line D, is the Content on the Line of Numbers C.

But the Dimcnfions being all taken in Foot-Meafure, and the mean Proportional found in the fame ; then let 1 on the Girt-Line, to the Length on the Line C; and against the mean Proportional in the Girt-Line, is the Content in the Line C.

Example There is a Piece of Timber 19 Feet 6 Inches in Length, the Base of the Triangle at each End 21 Inches, and the Perpendicular 16 Inches : to find the Content.

Set 2 1 Inches on the Girt-Line D, to 2 1 on the Line C ; then against 8 on the Line C, is 12.95 on the Line D, the mean Proportional ; then fet 12 on the Line D, to 19.5 Feet the Length, on the Line C ; and against 12.95 (the mean Proportional) on the Girt-Line D, is 22.8 Feet the Content on the Line C. Or thus, take all the Dimensions in Foot-Meafure, and then the Length 19 Feet 6 Inches, is 19.5, the Base 21 Inches, is 1.75, and the Perpen- dicular 16 Inches, is 1.33. Now fet 1 on the Girt-Line D, to the Length 19.5 on the

USE VI. To measure Taper Timber,

The Length being measured in Feet, note one third of it, which may be found thus : fet 3 on the Line A, to the Length on the Line B ; then against 1 on the Line A, is the third Part on the Line B : then if the Solid be round, measure the Diameter at each End in Inches, and fubftract the leifer Diameter from the greater, and add half the Difference to the lefTer Diameter, the Sum is the Diameter in the middle of the Piece ; then fet 13.54 on the Girt- Line D, to the Length on the LineC; and against the Diameter in the middle, on the Girt- Line, is a fourth Number on the Line C. Again; fet 13.54 on the Girt-Line, to the third part of the Length on the Line C : then against half the Difference on the Girt-Line, is an- other fourth Number on the Line C ; these two fourth Numbers added together, will give the Content.

Example. Let the Length be 27 Feet (one third of which will be 9), the greater Diame- ter 22 Inches, and the lefTer 18, the Sum of the greater and lefTer Diameters will be 40 ; their Difference 4, half their Difference 2, which added to the lt-ffer Diameter, gives 20 Inches for the Diameter in the middle of the Piece. Now fet 13.54 on the Girt-Line D, to 27 on the LineC ; and against 20 on the Line D, is 58.9 Feet. Again, fet 13.54 °f tne Girt-Line, to 9 on the Line C ; then against 2 on the Girt-Line (reprefented by 20), is .196 Parts: therefore, by adding 58.9 Feet, to .196 Feet, the Sum is 59.096 Feet the Contenr. If all the Dimenfions are taken in Foot- Meafure, then you must add the greater and lefTer Diameters together, which in this Example make 3.33 Feet ; half of which is the Diameter in the middle of the Piece, viz. i.6j Feet, the Difference of the Diameters is 0.33 Fttx, half of which Difference is o. 1 7 Feet.

Then fet 1.13 on the Girt-Line, to the Length 27 Feet on the Line C ; and against 1.67 on the Line D, is 58.9 Feet : then again, fet 1.13 on the Line D, to 9 Feet on tf Line C ; and then against 0.17 on the Line D, is 196 Parts of a Foot, and both .1 ,.ed togt .her is the Content; that is, 58.9 and .196 added, makes 59.096 Feet as Iv-fort

If the Solid is square, and has the fame Dimenfions ; that is, the Length 27 Feet, the Side of the greater End 22 Inches, and the Side of the lefTer End 18 Inches, to find tl, - Content in Inch- Meafure: fet 12 on the Girt-Line, to 27 the Length of the Solid, on the Line C; and against 20 Inches, the Side of the mean Square on the Girt-Line, is 75.4 T eet. Again ; fet 12 on the Girt-Line, to 9 Feet, one third of the Length, on the Line C; and ngainft 2 Inches, half the Difference of the Sides of the Squares of the Ends, on the Girt-Lii e, is .25 Parts of a Foot; both together is ys-^5 Feet the Content of the Solid : 01 thus, When all the Dimenfions are taken in Foot- Meafure, fet 1 on the Girt-Line, to the Lengtn 27 Feet on the Line C; then against 1.67 Feet, the Side of the middle Square on the Girt-Line-, ftands 75.4 Feet ; and fetting 1 on the Girt-Line to 9 Feet, one third of che Length on the Line C, against 0.167, half the Difference of the Sides of the Squares of the Ends on the Girt-Line, is on the Line C, .25 Parts of a Foot; which added to the other, makes 75.65 Feet, as be- fore, for the Content.

Note, The fixed Numbers 13.54, and 1.13 are, the first, the Diameter of a Circle whose Area, or Content is 144 ; that is, the Number of square Inches in a fuperficial Foot ; and the other, the Diameter of a Circle whose Area is Unity.

USE VII. To find how many Inches in Length will make a Foot- Solid, at any Girt, being the Side of a Square not exceeding 40 Inches.

Let the Girt, or Side of the Square, taken upon the Girt-Line, be fet to 1 on the Line C: then against 41.57 of the Girt-Line, is the Number of Inches on the Line C, that will make a Solid-Foot.

Example. Let the Side of a Square be 8 Inches: fet 8 on the Girt-Line D, to 1 on the Line C ; then against 41.57 on the Girt-Line D, is 27 Inches for the Length of one solid Foot. To do this in Foot-Meafure ; the Side of the Square 8 Inches, in Foot- Meafure, is .66 Parts, which taken on the Girt-Line, and being fet to 1 on the Line C, against 1 on the Girt-Line, is 2.25 Feet, for the Length to make one Foot of Timber.

Note, 41.57 is the Square-Root of 1728, the Number of Cubic Inches in a solid Foot.

USE VIII. The Diameter of a Circle, or round Piece of Timber, being given : to find the Side of a Square within the Circle ; or to know how many Inches the Side of the Square will be, when the round Timber is squared.

Rule. Set 8.5 on the Line A, to 6 on the Line B ; then against the Diameter on the Line A, is the Side of the Square on the Line B.

Example. Let the Diameter be 18 Inches: fet 8.^ on A, to 6 on B ; then against 18 on A, is nion the Line B, for the Side of a Square within the Circle. The fame done in Foot- Meafure: the Diameter being 18 Inches, is in Foot-Meafure 1.5 -, then fet 1 on the Line A, to .707 on the Line B; and against the Diameter 1.5 on the Line A, is 1.7 on the Line B ; that is, 1.7 Foot is the Side of an inferibed Square in a Circle, whose Diameter is 1.5 Foot.

Note, The given Numbers 8.5 and 6, or more exadler, 1 and .707, are, the one the Dia- meter of a Circle, and the other the Side of a Square inferibed in that Circle.

USE IX. The Girt of a Tree, or round Piece of Timber being given ; to find the Side of

a Square within.

Rule. Set 10 to 9 on the Lines A and B ; then againfl the Girt on the Line A, are the Inches for the Side of the Square on the Line B.

Let the Girt be 12 Inches ; fet 10 on the Line A, to 9 on the Line B ; then againfl: 12 on the Line A, is 10.8 on the Line B, for the Side of the Square. By Foot-Meafure it is thus; the Girt 12 Inches is one Foot ; then fet 10 on the Line A, to 9 on the Line B •, and againfl the ' ~t 1 Foot, on the Line A, is .89 Parts of a Foot for the Side of the Square within.

Note, The Numbers 10 and 9, or 1 and .9, (hew when the Square within the Circle is i* the fourth Part of the Circumference is .9 Parts of the fame. Alfo, by this and t&gt;-e last Use, you may know, before a Piece of Timber be hewn, how many Boards or Planks of any Thicknefs it will make.

USE X. The fourth Part of the Girt of a round Piece of Timber being given j to find

the Side of a Square equal to it.

Rule. Set 1 on the Line A, to 1.128, on the LineB j then againfl the one fourth of the Girt, on the Line A, is on the Line B, the Side of the Square equal to it.

Example. Let the Girt (that is, one fourth of the whole Girt), be 16 Inches ; What is the Side of a Square equal to it? Set 1 to 1.13, on the Lines A and B ; then aga'inft 16 on the Line A, is 18 on the Line B ; which fhews, that a Square, whose Side is 18 Incncs, is equal to a Circle, whose Girt is 64 Inches, and * of it's Girt 16 Inches*

USE XI. To find the Solidity of a Cone.

Let the Diameter of the Base of a Cone be 12 Feet, and it's Altitude or Height, 2 a • to find the Content. & *■"+' lw

This Use may be folved at one Opearation, thus ; fet 1.95 on the Girt-Li ie, to the Height of the Cone 24 on the Line C •, then againfl the Diameter oi the Base ot the Con, 12, on the Girt Line, {lands on the Line C, 904.8 Feet, for the Content.

Note, 1.95 is j the Square Rpit of the Quotient of 42 divided by it : and As the Quotient

Baffto the' d £lid Contend *" ' ^ °' "* ^ » S ° " ** ^ ° f the D ™™ ° f *'■

USE XII. To find the Solidity of a Square Pyramid.

Suppose the Side of the Base is 8 Inches, and the Height 00, fet 7 on the Girt-Line to • of the Length, viz. 10, on the Line C ; then againfl the o.Ut of the Base 8, on the Girt? Line, is 640 Inches, on the Line C, for the Solidity.

USE XIII. To find the Solidity of a Sphere^ by having the Circumference given.

Let the Circumference of a Sphere be 22 Inches ; to find the Content. As 2904 is to 40,

So is the Cube of the Circumference of a Sphere to it's solid Content: therctbrt fefct 8

the Square Root of 2904) on the Girt Line, to 49 on the Line C ; then againfl the Circum-

erence 22 Inches on the Girt-Line, is a fourth Number, viz. 8.09. Ag°ain, f t ,, on Se

Line B, to 22 on the Line A ; then againfl 8.09, on the Line C, Lids% 9 6 on iTlSe

A, for he Content of the said Sphere in solid Inches. If the Diameter had been liven

you mull have used the fixed Numbers 4.57 and 1 1, inflead of 53 . : Tnd 49, and the! have*

TJiis Use may be otherwise folved at one Operation, thus : fet 7.69 on the Girt-Line D to the Circumference of the Sphere 22 Inches, on the Line C; thin Againfl 22 Inches on the G,rt-L,ne D, Hands on the Line C, the solid Content 179.6 Inch! I ?he Diameter AIT t0 \ nd T thC ^ lld 7 at ° ne °P eration ' y° u must &lt;* 1.38. on the G rt Zine to the Un"c, tne Conrcn"! '' ^ ^ ^ famc Dhm ™&gt; ° n the birt ' Line &gt; fta " " « ^

a« N °£a l^ . Und x ;38 are, the one, the Square Root of the Quotient of 2904 divided bv 4&lt;?S and the other, the Square Root of the Quotient of 21, diviaed by 11; 9 * f

U S E XIV. The Circumference of a Sphere being given, to find it's Superficies.

USE XV. To find the Solidity of the Segment of a Sphere. Say, As 21 is to the Sine •, So is 1 1 times the Square of the said Sine, added to 33 times the Square of half the Chord, to the solid Content of the Segment. As suppose the Sine be 10 Inches, and half the Chord 16 Inches ; to find the Content: fay, As 21 is to 10; So is 9548, the Sum of 11 times the Square of 10, added to %% times the Square of 16, 10 the Content 4546.6 Inches.

USE XVI. To find the Area of the Convex Superficies of the Segment of a Sphere.

Say, As 14 is to 44 times the Diameter of a Sphere ; So is the Length of the Sine of any Segment thereof, to the convex Superficies of the said Segment. Suppose the Sine be 12 Inches, and the Diameter 30 ; fay, As 14 is to 1320 ; So is 12 to 1131.4 Indies, the Con- tent fought.

C H A P. V. I

Of the ConfiruSiion and Uses of the Plotting Scale, and an

improved Protractor

Tip FIE Plotting-Scale is generally made of Box- Wood, and form times of Brass, Ivory, or _j[ Silver, exactly a Foot, or half a Foot in Length, about an Inch and a half-broad, and of a convenient Thicknefs : Those that are but half a Foot long, have that Length given them, that thereby they may be put into Cafes of Instruments, Plate 4. On one Side of this Scale is placed seven several Scales of Lines, five of which are di-

Fig. 1. vided into as many equal Parts as the Length of the Plotting-Scale will permit. The other

two are likewise equal Parts, but have two Lines of Chords of different Lengths joined to them. The first of the equal Divisions, on the first Scale of Lines, is fubdivided into :o equal Parts, at the Beginning of which is fet the Number 10 •, fignifying, that ten of those Subdivifions make an Inch : that is, in this Cafe, every of the Divisions on the first Scae, is exactly an Inch •, at the End of the first of which, is fet o ; at the End of the second 1 ; at the End of the third 2 ; and so on to the End of the Scale. The first of the equal Di- vifions, on the second Scale of Lines, which are leffer than the Divisions on the first S&lt; aie, is likewise fubdivided into 10 equal Parts, and hath the Number 16 fet at the Beginning of it, fignifying, that 16 of those Subdivifions make an Inch, or one of the Divisions -^ of an Inch j at the End of the first of which is placed o ; at the End of the second 1 ; at the End of the third 2 : and so on to the End of the Scale. The first of the equ.i, Divisions on the third Scale of Lines, which are leffer than the Divisions of the precedent Scale's, is alio fubdivided into 10 equal Parts ; at the Beginning of which is fet the Number 20 •, fignify- ing, that 20 of those Subdivifions go to make an Inch, or that one of the Divisions is ' | or 4 of an Inch, which Divisions are marked, o, 1, 2, 3, and so on to the End of the Scale, Underftand the fame for the other four Scales, at the Beginnings of which are writ, 24, 32, 40, 48 ; only the Divisions of the two last Scales of Lines are not continued to the F'nd of the Scale, because of two Lines of Chords of different Lengths, the Beginnings of which are marked by the Letters C, C, fignifying Chords. The Conftruction of which fee in the nexc Chapter.

Note, Each of the aforsaid Scales of Lines are aptly distinguished from one another, by being called Scales of 10, 16, 20, 24, 32, or 48, in an Inch; as the first Scale, is a Scale of 10 in an Inch ; the second, 16 in an Inch -, the third, 20 in an Inch ; the fourth, 24 ; and so on.

Fig. 2. On the back Side of this Scale, is placed a Diagonal Scale ; the first of whose Divisions, which is half an Inch, if the Scale is a Foot long-, and one fourth, if the Scale is hut half a Foot long, is diagonally fubdivided into 100 equal Parts. Also at the other End of the Scale is another Diagonal Subdivifion of an Inch into 100 equal Parts, if the Scale is a loot long ; but if it is haif a Foot, the Subdivifion is of half an Inch into 100 equal Parts. The Figure of this Diagonal Scale, and what our Author has already said of it, in Use 8, is fuffi- cient to fliew it's Construction and Use.

There is also next to the Diagonal Scale, a Foot divided into 100 equal Parts, if the Scale is a Foot long, every 10 of which are numbered 10, 20, 30, &c. There is likewise next to that the Divisions of Inches, numbered, 1,2, 3, £srV. each of which is fubdivided into ten equal Parts.

Use of the Plotting-Scale.

This Scale's principal l)k is to lay down Chains and Links taken in furveying Land.

Chap. 4. of CoggeshallV Sliding-Ruk. 33

USE I. Any Difiance being measured by your Chain, to lay it down upon Paper.

Suppose, that measuring along a Hedge, or the Distance between any two Marks, or Fig. 3. Places, with your Chain, you find the Length thereof to contain 6 Chains, 50 Links. Now to take this Distance from your Scale, and lay it down upon Paper, do thus :

First draw the Line A B, then place one Foot of your CompafTes upon your Scale at the Fi'Hire 6, for the 6 Chains, and extend the other Foot to 5 of the Subdivifions (which re- presents the 50 Links), then ftt this Distance upon the Line drawn from A to B, and the Line A B will contain 6 Chains, 50 Links, if you take the Distance from the Scale of 10 in

But if you would have the Line fhorter, and yet to contain 6 Chains 50 Links, then take your Distance from a fmaller Scale, as of 16, 20, 24, &c. in an Inch, and then the 6 Chains, co Links, will end at C : if taken from the Scale of 16 in an InCh ; or at D, if taken from the Scale of 20 in an Inch, &c. either of which Lines will contain 6 Chains, 50 Links, and be proportional one to another, as the Scales from which they were taken. And in this manner any Number of Chains and Links may be taken from any of the Scales.

U S E II. A right Line being given, to find how many Chains and Links are therein contained, according to any affigned Scale.

Suppose A B was a given Line, and it is required to find how many Chains and Links are Fig. j- contained therein, according to the Scale of 10 in an Inch : Take in your CompafTes the Length of the Line A B, and applying it to the Scale of 10 in an Inch, you will find that the Extent of your CompafTes will reach from 6 of the great Divisions, to 5 of the small ones ; whence the Line A B, contains 6 Chains, 50 Links. The like must be done for any Line, and also by any of the other Scales.

But note, that in laying down the Lengths of Lines by your Scales, whatfoever Scale you begin your Work with, with the fame Scale you must continue it to the End, not laying down one Line by one Scale, and another by another •, but if you would have a large Work in a little room, then use a small Scale, as of 32, 40, or 48 in an Inch. But contrariwife, if you would exprefs every small Particular, then it is beft to use the Scales of 10, or 16 in an Inch.

The Use of the Lines of Chords on the Plotting-Scale, is to protracT or lay down Angles, when a ProtracTor is wanting, which is much more convenient in -laying off Angles : vide Uses of the Plain-Scale. To take off Parts from the Diagonal Scale, fee Use VIII. of our Author's.

Of the Construction and Use of an improved ProtracJor.

This Protractor is made of Brass, as the others commonly are, and has likewise it's Semi- Fig. 4. circular Limb divided into 180 Degrees-, there is an Index adjufted in the Center of this ProtracTor, by means of which, an Angle of any Number of Degrees and Minutes, may be protracTed : there is a Circle cut out in the Piece, whose Edge, next to the Limb, ferves for the Diameter of the Semicircle •, the Center of this Circle is in the Center of the Limb, and it is cut (loping, so that it makes the Fruflum of a Cone, the greateft Base being un- derneath. In this Circle is adjufted a Ring, to which the Ring of the End of the Index is riveted ; by which means the Index will move freely about the Limb. There is a little Steel Point fixed to the Ring, adjufted in the aforsaid Circle, the End of which terminates in the Center of the Circle ■, the End of this Point must be laid to the angular Point to be pro- trafted.

The Index confiffs of two Pieces, one End of that which comes out beyond the Limb of the ProtracTor is cut flopewife, so as exacTly to fit the Edge of the Limb of the ProtracTor, which is likewise doped underneath, and is fattened to the other Piece ; by which means the Index is kept down clofe to the Limb.

The Divisions on both Edges of that Part of the Index beyond the Limb, are 60 equal Parts of the Portions of Circles (pafTing thro' the Center of the ProtracTor, and two Points aifumed in the outward Edge of the Limb ©f that Piece of the Index nigheft the Center), in- tercepted by two other right Lines drawn from the Center •, so that they each make, with Lines drawn to the affumed Points from the Center, Angles of one Degree.

To lay off any Number of Degrees and Minutes by this ProtracTor, you must move the Index, so that one of the Lines drawn upon the Limb, from one of the aforementioned Points, may be upon the Number of Degrees fought •, and then pricking off as many of the equal Parts on the proper Edge of the Index, as there are Minutes given, and drawing a Line from the Center, to that Point so pricked off, you will have an Angle, with the Diameter of the ProtracTor, of the proposed Number of Degrees or Minutes. The reason of this Contri- vance is from Prop. 27. Lib. 3. Eucl. where it is proved that Angles infifting upon the fame Arcs, in equal Circles, or in the fame Circle (for it is the fame thing), are equal.

The Proje&ion of the Pluin-Scale.

Fig. s» 6. TJ&gt; I R S T, draw a Circle A B D C, which crofs at right Angles with the Diameters A D, £/ C B -, then continue out A D to G, and upon the Point B, raife B F perpendicular to C B. Now draw the Chord AB, and divide the Quadrant A B into 9 equal Tarts, fetting the Figures 10, 20, 30, &c. to 90 to them; each of which 9 Parts again fubdivide into 10 more equal Parts, and then the Quadrant will be divided into 90 Degrees. Now fetting one Foot of your CompafTes in the Point A, transfer the said Divisions to the Chord Line A B, and fet thereto the Figures 10, 20, 30, &c. and the Line of Chords A B, will be divided, and then may be put upon your Scale, reprefented in Fig. 6. Now to project the Sines, di- vide the Arc BD into 90 Degrees, as before you did A B •, from every of which Degrees, let fall Perpendiculars on the Semidiameter E B ; which Perpendiculars will divide E B into a Line of Sines, to which you must fet 10, 20, 30, &c. beginning from the Center, and then you may transfer the Line of Sines to your Scale.

Again, to project the Line of Tangents •, from the Center E, and thro' every Division of the Arc BD, draw right Lines cutting BF, which will divide it into a Line of Tangents, fetting thereto the Numbers 10, 20, 30, &c. which you must transfer to your Scale.

To project the Line of Secants, transfer the Distances E 10, E 20, E 30, &c. that is, the Distance from E to 10, 20, 30, &c. on the Tangent Line, upon the Line EG, and fetting thereto the Numbers 10, 20, 30, &c. the Line EG will be divided into a Line of Secants, which must be transferred on the Scale.

To project the Semi-tangents •, draw Lines from the Point C, thro' every Degree of the Quadrant A B, and they will divide the Diameter AE into a Line of Semi-tangents: but be- caufe the Semi-tangents, or Plane-Scales of a Foot in Length, run to 160 Degrees, continue out the Line A E, and draw Lines from the Point C, thro' the Degrees of the Quadrant C A, cutting the said continued Portion of A E, and you will have a Line of Half-tangents to 160 Degrees, or further, if you pleafe.

Note, The Semi-tangent of any Arc, is but the Tangent of half that Arc, as will eafily ap- pear from it's manner of Projection, and Prop. 20. Lib. 3. End. where it is proved, that an Angle at the Center, is double to one at the Circumference.

Moreover, to draw the Rhumb-Line ; from every 8th part of the Quadrant A C, fetting one Foot of your CompafTes in A, defcribe Arcs cutting the Chord A C, which will divide A C into a Line of whole Rhumbs, dnd in the fame Manner may theSubdivilions of half and quarter Rhumbs be made.

Laftly, to project the Line of Longitude •, draw the Line HD, equal and parallel to the Radius CE, which divide into 60 equal Parts (because 60 Miles make a Degree of Longi- tude under the Equator), every 10 of which Number fet Figures to. Now from every of those Parts, let fall Perpendiculars to CE, cutting the Arc CD -, and having drawn the Chord C D, with one Foot of your CompafTes in D, transfer the Diitances from D, to each of the Points in the Arc CD, on the Chord CD, and fet thereto the Numbers 10, 20, &c. and the Line of Longitude will be divided,

The Reason of this Conftruction is, that As Radius is to the Sine Complement of any La- titude, So is the Length of a Degree of Longitude under the Equator,' which is 60 Miles, to the Length of a Degree of Longitude in that Latitude.

Thefe being all the Lines commonly put upon the Rulers, called Plain-Scales, excepting equal Parts ; therefore I shall proceed to fhew their manner of using in Trigonometry, and Spherical Geometry.

But, by the way, note, That Plain-Scales are commonly of these two Lengths, viz. fome one foot long, and others, which are put into Cafes of Instruments, but half a foot in Length ; and on one Side is a Diagonal Scale: they are generally made of Box, and fome- times of Brass or Ivory.

USE I. To make an Angle in the Point A, at the End of the Line A B, of any Number

of Degrees, suppose 40.

FJg. 7. Take in your CompafTes 60 Degrees from the Line of Chords, and letting one Foot in,

the Point A, defcribe the Arc CB; then take 40 Degrees, which is the Number proposed, from the fame Line of Chords, and lay them off on the Arc from B to E ; draw the Line A E, and the Angle B A E will be 40 Degrees, as is manifest from the Conftruction oi the Line of Chords, and Prop. 15. Lib. 4. Eucl. which fhews that the Semidiameter of any Circle, is equal to the Side of a Hexagon inferibed in the fame Circle ; that is, to the Chord of Co Degrees.

U S E II. The Angle EAB being given, to find the Quantity of Degrees it contains. Take in your Compasses 60 Degrees from the Line of Chords, and defcribe the Arc B C ; Fig. 7. then take the Extent from B to E in the Compasses ; which Extent apply on the Line of Chords, and the Quantity of the Angle will be fhewn. This Use, which is only the Re- verfe of the former, may be likewise done by the Lines of Sines and Tangents, the Method of doing which is enough manifest from Use I.

USE III. The Safe of a Triangle being given 40 Leagues, the Angle A B C 3 6 Degrees, and the Angle B A C 41 Degrees ; to make the Triangle, find the Lengths of the Sides AC, C B, and also the other Angle.

Draw the indefinite right Line AD, and take the Extent of 40 Leagues, from the Line Fig. 8. of Leagues, between your Compasses, which lay off upon the said Line from A to B for the Base of the Triangle •, at the Points A and B make, by Use I. the Angles ABC, BCA; the first 36 Degrees, and the last 41 Degrees, and the Triangle A C B will be formed ; then take in your Compasses the Length of the Side A C, and apply it to the fame Scale of Leagues, and you will find it's Length to be 24 Leagues. Do thus for the other Side B C, and you will find it 27 Leagues and a half j and, by Use II. the Angle AC B will be found 103 Degrees.

By this Use the following Problem in Navigation may be folved, viz. Two Ports, both lying under the fame Meridian, being any Number of Miles distant from each other, suppose co, and the Pilot of a Ship, out at Sea on a certain time, finds the Bearing of one of the Ports is S W by S, and the Bearing of the other N W : the Ship's Distance from each of the Ports at that time is required ?

To iblve this Problem •, draw the right Line A B equal to 3 Inches, or 3 of the largeft equal Parts on the Diagonal Scale, which is to reprefent the 30 Miles, or the Distance from one of the Ports, as A to the other B ; at the Point B make an Angle, equal to the bearing Fig. 9. of the Port B from the Ship, which must be 33 Degrees, 45 Minutes ; likewise make an- other Angle at the Point A, equal to the Bearing of the Port A from the Ship, which must be 45 Degrees, then the Point C will be the Place the Ship was in at the time of Obfervation.

Now to find the Distance of the Ship from the Port A, take the Length of the Side A C in your Compasses, and applying it to the Diagonal Scale, you will find it to be 17 -,'- Miles. In the fame manner the Distance of the Ship, from the Port B, will be found 214 (Miles.

Note, The Reason why the Angles A and B are equal to the Bearing of the Ship from each
of those Ports, depends on Prop. 29. lib. 1. Eucl.

USE IV. The Base A B of a Triangle being given 60 Leagues, the oppejite Angle A C B 108 Fig. 10.

Degrees, and the Side C B 40 Leagues ; to make the said Triangle, and find the Length of the other Side A C.

Draw the Line a b equal to A B, the given Base •, and because in any Triangle the Sines Fig. 11. of the Sides are proportionable to the Sines of the opposite Angles (as is demonftrated by Trigonometrical Writers), it follows, that As A B is to the Sine of the given Angle C, which is of 72 Degrees, viz. the Complement of 108 Degrees to 180 ; So is the given Side B C, to the Sine of the Angle CAB: therefore make be equal to the given Side BC of 40 Leagues. Take in your Compasses, upon the Line of Sines, the Sine of 72 Degrees, to which Length make b e equal, -and draw the Line a c ; likewise draw e d parallel to a c, and (by Prop. 4. lib. 6. Eucl.) bd will be the Sine of the Angle CAB, which will be found, by applying it to the Line of Sines, about 39 Degrees : therefore make an Angle at the Point A of 39 Degrees, then take in your Compasses the Length 40 Leagues, and fetting one Foot in the Point B, with the other defcribe an Arc, which will cut the Side A C in the Point C, and confequently the Triangle A B C will be made, and the Length of the Side AC will be found 34 Leagues.

USE V. Concerning the Line of Rhumbs.

The Use of the Line of Rhumbs is only to lay off, or measure, the Angles of a Ship's Courfe in Navigation, more expeditioufly than can be done by the Line of Chords : As suppose a Ship's Courfe is N N E, it is required to lay it down.

Draw the Line AB, reprefenting the Meridian -, take 60 Degrees from the Line of Chords, Fig, 12. and about the Point A defcribe the Arc B C. Now because N N E is the third Rhumb from the North, therefore take the third Rhumb in your Compasses, on the Line of Rhumbs, and lay it off upon the Arc from BtoC; draw the Line A C, and the Angle B A C will be the Courfe.

USE VI. Of the Line of Longitude.

The Use of this Line is to find in what Degrees of Latitude a Degree of Longitude is i» -, 3, 4, iyc. Miles, which is eafily done by means of the Line of Chords next to it: for it is only iccing what Degree of the Line of Chords anfwers to a proposed Number of Miles, and that Degree will be the Latitude, in which a Degree of Longitude is equal to that pro- pofed

- 5 l The Conjl ruction and Uses B o o k I.

poled "Number of Miles. As for Example ; against 10 Miles, on the Line of Longitude, {land 80 Degrees, and fomething more ; whence, in the Latitude of about 80 Degrees, a Decree of Longitude is 10 Miles. Again, 30 Miles on the Line of Longitude, anlwers to 60 Decrees on the Line of Chords-, therefore in the Latitude of 60 Degrees, a Degree of Longitude is 30 Miles. Moreover, against 58 Miles, on the Line of Longitude, (lands 15 Deuces of the Line of Chords, which (hews that a Degree of Longitude, in the Latitude or 15 Deg. is 58 Miles ; and lb for others.

USE of the Plain-Scale in Spherical Geometry.

U S E I. To find the Pole of any Great Circle.

If the Pole of the Primitive Circle be required, it is it's Center.

If the Pole of a rbht or perpendicular Circle be fought, it is 90 Degrees distant, reckoned upon the Limb fronfthe Points, where this Circle, which is a Diameter, cuts it.

If the Pole of an oblique Circle be required, &gt;

(1 ) Confider that this Circle must cut the primitive in two Points, that will be distant from each other juft a Diameter, as is the Cafe of the Interferon of all great Circles.

(2 ) The Pole of this Circle must be in a right Line, perpendicular to it s Plane.

(3.) This Circle's Pole cannot but lie between the Center of the primitive one, and its own. . ,

Fi c 1, Example. Let the Pole of the oblique Circle A B C be required,

1. Draw the Diameter AC, and then another, as D E, perpendicular to it.

2. Lay the Edge of your Scale from A to B, it will cut the Limb in F ; then take the
Chord of 90 Degrees, and let it from F to h. ,.,..„. ..

3. Lay the Edge of your Scale from h to A, it will cut D E in g , which Point g is the

Pole required. , . _ . . . . ^. , , . .•

Note, To find the Points F and b, is called reducing B to the primitive Circle and to the Diameter. Alfo, Note, that every of the primitive Circles in this Use , and the following ones, are supposed to be defcribed from 60 Degrees, taken off from the letter Line or Chords on the Scale.

U S E II. To defcribe a Spherical Angle of any Number of given Degrees.

1. If the angular Point be at the Center of the primitive Circle, then it :isat any plane Angle, numbering the Degrees in the Limb from the Line of Chords • for all Circles passing through the CenteT, and which are at right Angles with the Limb, must be projected into right

T^f the Angle given is to be defcribed at the Periphery of the primitive Circle, draw a Diameter as AC (then take the Secant of the Angle given in your CompaiTes, and fitting one Foot in A, crofs the Diameter in e : or if no Diameter be drawn, placing one Foot in C and croffina the former Arc, you will find the fame Point e, which is the Center of the Circle ArfC, which, with the primitive Circle, makes the Angle DA a required.

Note If the Ancrle given be obtuse, take the Secant of it's Supplement to 180 Degrees.

2 If a Point, as%, were affigned, through which the Arc of the Circle confhtut.ng the Angle must pals, draw the Diameter A C (as before) then take the Secant of the given Angle, and fetting one Foot in A or C, ftrike an Arc as at t, and then with the Secant of the given Angle, fetting one Foot in a, crofs the other Arc in e ; which will be the Center of the ob- lique Circle required.

USE III. To draw a great Circle through any tzvo Points given, as a and b, within the primitive one.

Fig , 4 Draw a Diameter through that Point which is furtheft from the Center, as D R, producing it beyond the Limb if there be Occafion ; fet 90 Degrees of Chords from D or R, to O, and Then^erecT: O H perpendicular to a O, and produce it 'till it cuts the Diameter prolonged in H-, that Interferon H is a third Point, through which, as also a and b, if a Circe be drawn, it will be a great Circle, zseab g. . .

Which is eafily pToved, by drawing the Lines eCg; for that Line is a Diameter, because it's Parts, multiplied into one another, are equal to a c x C H, equal to O C squared. Per Prop. 35. Ub. 3. &? Cor oil 8. lib. 6. End.

USE IV. To draw a great Circle perpendicular to, or at right Angles to another. Let it pass through it's Poles, and it is done. Of which there will be four Cafes : . . ,. mf

1. To draw a Circle perpendicular to the Primitive, which is done by any (trait Line paf-fing through the Center. . . . ,

2. To draw a Circle perpendicular to a right Circle, is only to draw a Diameter at right

Angles with that right Circle. r-.^v &lt;-\^r

3 To draw an oblique Circle perpendicular to a right one 5 only draw a right Circe th-t

(hall pass through both the Pole? of such a right Circle, ^^

Thus the oblique Circle D C R is perpendicular to the right one O O^ because it palTes through it's Poles D and R.

4. To draw an oblique Circle perpendicular to another : Plate 5.

First find F, the Pole of the given oblique Circle C e B, and then draw any-how the Dia- Fig 1. meter D R : So a Circle, drawn through the three Points D, P, and R, will be the Circle re- quired •, for pafTing through the Poles of the oblique Circle C e B, it must be perpendicular to it.

U S E V. To measure the Quantity of the Degrees of any Arc of a great Circle.

1. If the Arc be part of the Primitive, it is measured on the Line of Chords.

2. If the Arc be any part of a right Circle, the Degrees of it are measured on the Scale of Semi-Tangents, supposing the Center of the primitive Circle to be in the Beginning of the Scale ; so that if the Degrees are to be reckoned from the Center, you must account ac- cording to the Order of the Scale of Half-Tangents.

But if the Degrees are to be accounted from the Periphery of the Primitive, as will often happen, then you must begin to account from the End of the Scale of Half-Tangents, calling 80, 10 -, 70, 20, &c.

3. To measure any part of an oblique Circle ; first find it's Pole, and there laying the Ruler, reduce the two Extremities of the Arc required to the primitive Circle, and then measure the Distance between those Points on the Line of Chords.

Thus, in the last Figure, if the Quantity of ^B, an Arc of the oblique Circle C e B be Fig. r. required, lay a Ruler to P the Pole, and reduce the Points e B to the primitive Circle ; fo shall the Distance between O and B, measured on the Line of Chords^ be the Quantity of Degrees contained in the Arc e B.

USE VI. To measure any Spherical Angle.

1. If the angular Point be at the Center of the primitive Circle, then the Distance between the L'-gs taken from the Limb, and measured on the Chords-, is the Quantity of the Angle fought.

2. If the angular Point be at the Periphery, as ACB; here the Poles of both Circles be- Fig 2. ing in the fame Diameter, find the Pole of the oblique Circle C B O, which let be P ; then the Distance of B P, measured on the Scale of Halt-Tangents, is the Meafure of the Angle ACB.

For the Poles of all Circles must be as far distant from each other, as are the Angles of the Inclinations of their Planes.

But if the two Poles are not in the fame Diameter, being both found in their proper Dia- meter, reduce those Points to the primitive Circle ; and then the Distance between them there, accounted on the Line of Chords, is the Quantity of the Angle fought.

When the angular Point is fomewhere within the primitive Circle, and yet not at the Fig. 3. Center, proceed thus : Suppose the Angle abC be fought; find the Pole P of the Circle a b d, and then the Pole of the Circle e b c \ after which lay a Ruler to the angular Pointj and the two Poles P and Q, and reduce them to the primitive Circle by the Points x and 2 ; So is the Arc x z, measured on the Line of Chords, the Meafure of the Angle a b C required.

USE VII. To draw a Parallel Circle.

t. If it be to be drawn parallel to the primitive Circle, at any given Distance, draw it from the Center of the Primitive, with the Complement of that Distance taken from the Scale of Half-Tangents.

2. If it be to be drawn parallel to a right Circle ; as suppose a b y parallel to A B, was to F -

be drawn at 23 Deg. 30 Min. Distance from it •, from the Line of Chords take 23 Deg. 30 ' 8 ' 4 * Min. and fet it both-ways on the Limb from A to a, and B to b (or fet it's Complement 66 Deg. 30 Min. both-ways from P the Pole of A B) to the Points a and b.

Then take the Tangent of the Parallel's Distance from the Pole of the right Circle A B, which is here 66 Deg. 30 Min. and fetting one foot in a and b&gt; with the other ftrike two little Arcs, to interfecT each other fomewhere above P, which will give C, the Center of the parallel Circle a b d required.

3. If it be drawn parallel to an oblique Circle, and at the Distance suppose of 40 Degrees r Fig. 5. First find P, the Pole of the oblique Circle ABC, and then measure, on the Scale of

Half-Tangants, the Distance £ P, which suppose to be 34 Degrees ; then add to it 50 De- grees, the Complement of the Circle's Distance, it will make 84 Degrees ; and also fub- itracYing 50 from it, or it from 50, it will make 16 Degrees : Then this Sum and Difference taken from the Scale of Half-Tangents, and fet each way from P the Pole of the oblique Circle, will give the two Extremes a b of the Diameter, or the Points of the Interferon of the Parallel •, and then the middle Distance between a and b, is the Center of the true parallel Circle Fab, which is parallel to the given oblique Circle ABC; and at the given Distance of 40 Degrees : or the Half-Tangent of 84, fet from g, will give b ; and the Half-Tangent of 16 Degrees, fet also from g, and the Points a and b, the two Ends of the parallel Circle's Diameter will be had.

L USE

38 The Construction and Uses Book I.

USE VIII. To measure any projecled Arc of a parallel Circle.

1. If it be parallel to the Primitive, then a Ruler, laid through the Center and the Division of the Limb, will divide the Parallel into the fame Degrees, or determine, in the Limb, the Quantity of any Arc parallel to it.

2. If the Circle be parallel to a right one, as a do is, in cafe the second of the last Use&gt; and it were required to measure that Arc a b, or to divide it into proper Degrees : Since that parallel Circle is 66 Deg. 30 Min. distant from P, the nearer Pole of the right Circle A B, and confequently 113 Deg. 30 Min. distant from it's other Pole; take the Half- Tangent of 113 Deg. 30 Min. or the Tangent of it's half, 56 Deg. 45 Min. and with that Distance, and on the Center of the Primitive, draw a Circle parallel to the Limb.; and di- vide that half of it, which lies towards the opposite Pole of A B, into it's Degrees: Then a Ruler laid from P, and the equal Divisions of that Semicircle, will divide a b, or measure any part thereof.

3. To measure or divide the Arc of a Circle which is projected, parallel to an oblique one. As suppose the Circle a b, which is parallel to the oblique one ABC, pig. Cafe 3. of the precedent Use, and at the Distance of 40 Degrees ; this parallel Circle being 40 Degrees distant from the Plane of the Circle ABC, must be 50 Degrees distant from it's Pole, and confequently 130 Degrees from it's opposite I'ole : therefore take the Semi-Tangent of 130 Degrees, or the Tangent of it's half, 65 Degrees, and with that, as a Radius, draw a Circle parallel to the Limb of the Primitive, which Circle divide into proper Degrees ; then fLall a Ruler laid through P, and the equal Division of that Circle, cut the little Circle a b into it's proper Degrees, or truly give the Meafure of any part thereof.

Thefe being molt of the general Uses of the Scales of Lines commonly put upon Plain- Scales, their particular Applications in Navigation, Spherical Trigonometry, and Aftronomy, would take up too much room •, therefore I proceed to Outlier's Scale.

As for it's Use in the Projection of the Sphere, fee the UJes of I be Englifh Seffor.

CHAP. VII.

Of the ConJlruEiton and Uses of GunterV*5W£.

Fig. 6. ^T*^ H I S Scale is commonly made of Box, and fometimes of Brass, exactly two Foot

X long (though there are others but a Foot long, which are not so exact) about an Inch and -I broad, ard of a convenient Thicknefs.

The Lines that are put on one Side of it are the Line of Numbers, marked on the Scale Numbers ; the Line of artificial Sines, marked Sines -, the Line of artificial Tangents, marked Tangents-, the Line of artificial verfed Sines, marked V. S. fignifying Verfed Sines ; the ar- tificial Sines of the Rhumbs, marked S. R. fignifying the Sines of the Rhumbs ; the artificial Tangents of the Rhumbs, marked T. R. fignifying Tangents of the Rhumbs ; the Meridian- Line in Mercator's Chart, marked Merid. fignifying Meridian-Line; and equal Parts, marked E. P. fignifying equal Parts.

There are commonly placed on these Scales, that are but a Foot long, the Lines of Latitudes, Hours, and Inclinations of Meridians.

On the Back-side of this Scale are placed all the Lines that are put upon a Plain-Scale.

The Lines of artificial Sines, Tangents, and Numbers are so fitted on this Scale, that, by means of a Pair of CompaiTes, any Problem, whether in right-lined, or fpherical Trigono- metry, may be folved by them very expeditioufly, with tolerable Exactnefs ; and therefore the Contrivance of these Lines on a Scale is extremely useful in all Parts of Mathematicks that Trigonometry hath to do with ; as Navigation, Dialling, Aftronomy, &c.

Construction of the Line of Numbers.

The Conftruction of the Line of Numbers is thus : Having pitched upon it's Length, which, on Gunter's Scale, let be 23 Inches, take exactly half that Length, which will be the Length of either of the Radius's ; then take that half Length, and divide into 10 equal Parts, one of which diagonally fubdivide into 100 equal Parts, that is, make a Diagonal Scale of 1000 equal Parts of the aforsaid Half-Length, which may eafily be done from our Author's 8th Use.

Now having drawn, on Gunter's Scale, three Parallels, for better distinguishing the Divi- fions of the Line of Numbers, and made a Mark for the Beginning of it, half an Inch from the Beginning-end of the Scale, look in a Table of Logarithms lor the Number 200, and againfl it you will find 2.301030 ; and rejecting the Characteriftick 2, and also the three last Figures 030, because the Length of the Radius is divided but into 1000 equal Parrs, take 301 of those 1000 Parts in your Compasses, and lay off that Distance from the Beginning of

Chap. 7. of Gunter's-Scak.

the Line, at the End of which write 2 for the first Prime; Again, to find the Division.for the second Prime, look, in the Table of Logarithms for the Number 300, and against it yoii will find 2.477121 ; and rejecting the Characteriftick 2, and the three last Figures 121, as be- fore, take 477 from your Diagonal Scale, and lay off that Distance from 1 at the Beginning, at the End of which write 3 for the fccond Prime. In this manner proceed for all the Primes of the first Radius to r, which will be the whole Length of your Diagonal Scale, or 1000 equal Parts. And because each of the Primes of the second Radius are at the fame Distance from 1, at the End of the first Radius, as the fame Primes, on the first Radius, are distant from 1 at the Beginning, the Primes on the second Radius are eafily found.

The Divisions of the Tenths, between each of the Primes in both Radius's, are found thus : Look in the Table of Logarithms for 1 10, and against it you will find 2.041393, and rejecting the Characteriftick 2, and the three last Figures, there will remain 41 •, which taken from the aforsaid Diagonal Scale of 1000, will give the first Tenth in the first Prime. Again, look in the Table for 120, and against it you will find 2.07918 1 ; and by rejecting the Characteriftick, and the three last Figures, there will remain 79; which taken from the Diagonal Scale, will give the second Tenth in the first Prime. Proceed thus for .all the Tenths in the first Primes of both Radius's. And to find the Tenths in the second Primes of both Radius's, look in the Table for the Number 21c, and against it you will find 2.322219, whence rejecting as before, you will have 322, which laid off from the Beginning of the first Prime, will give the first Tenth in the second Prime. Again, to find the second Tenth in the second Prime, look for the Number 220, and against it you will find 2.342423, •whence by rejecting, as before, you will have 342 for the second Tenth, in the second Prime. In like manner may the Tenths in all the Primes of both Radius's be found.

To find every two Centefms in the first Prime of the second Radius, look for the Number 102 in the Table of Logarithms, and against it you will find 2.008600, and by rejecting, as in the Table of Logarithms, and against it you will find 2.008600, and by rejecting, as at first, you will have 8 for the second Centefm. Again, look in the Table for 104, and pro- ceed as before, and you will have 17 for the third Centefm. In like manner you may have every second Centefm in the first, and also the Second Primes of the second Radius.

Note, In bifecting every of the two Centefms in the first Prime, Centefms will be had. Note also, That the third, fourth, and fifth Primes, cannot be divided into every two Cen- tefms, but only into every five, because of the Smallnefs of the Divisions.

Conjtruclicn of the Line of artificial Sines and Tangents.

The Line of artificial Sines on Gunter's Scale, is nothing but the Logarithms of the natural Sines, translated from the Tables of artificial Sines and Tangents, almost in the fame Manner as the Logarithms of the natural Numbers were ; the Method of doing which is thus :

Having drawn three Parallels under the Line of Numbers for distinguishing the Divisions of the Line, and marked a Point exactly half an Inch from the Beginning-end of the Scale, reprefenting the Beginning of the Li.ie of Sines, look in the Tables of artificial Sines and Tangents, for the Sine of 40 Minutes, which is the first Subdivision of the Line, and it will be found 8.065 776 : then rejecting the Characteriftick 8, and the three 1 last Figures 776, as in the Conftiuclion of the Line of Numbers, the 65 remaining, must be taken on the fame Scale of 1000 Parts, as ferved before for the Line of Numbers •, this 65 laid off from the Beginning of the Line of Sines, will give the Division on the Line of Sines for 40 Mii%ites. Again, To make the next Division, which is for 50 Minutes, feek in the Table for the Sine of 50 Minutes, which will be found 8.1 62681 ; then rejecting the Characteriftick 8, and the three last 1 igures 681, take the Remainder 162, from your Scale of 1000 Parts, and lay it off from the Beginning of the Line, and that will give the Division for 50 Minutes. More- over, to make the Division for 1 Degree, feek the Sine of 1 Degree, which is 8.241855, and rejecting as before, take the Remainder 241 from the Scale of 1000, and lay it off from the Beginning on the Line of Sines, which will give the Division for 1 Degree. Proceed thus for the other Degrees and Minutes to 90 •, only take notice, that when you come to 5 Degrees, 50 Minutes, the Parts to be taken off the Scale are more than 1000, and, confequently, longer than the Scale itfelf. In that Cafe you must make a Mark in the Middle of the Line of Sines ; from which lay off all the Parts found above 1000, for the Degrees and Minutes : As, to make the Division for 6 Degrees, the Sine of which is 9.019235, the Parts to be taken off the Scale will be 1019 •, therefore lay off 19 from the middle Point, reprefenting 1000, and the Division for 6 Degrees will be had. Proceed in the fame manner for the Line of artificial Tangents, 'till you come to 45 Degrees^whose Length is equal to Radius ; and the Divisions for the Degrees and Minutes above 45, which fnould go beyond 45, are fet down by their Complements to 90. For Example, the Division of 40 Degrees hath it's Complement 50 fet to it, because the proper equal Parts taken off the Scale of 1000 to make the Division, for the Tangent of 50 Deg. will be as much above 1000 (which are the equal Parts for the Tangent of 45 Degrees, to be laid off from the middle of the Line of Tangents) as the equal Parts for the Division of the Tangent of 40 Degrees wants of 1000 •, an Example of which will make it manifest: The Tangent of 40 Degrees is 9.924813, and by rejecting the Characteriftick, and the three last Figures, the Parts of 1000, viz. 924 taken from 1000, and there remains 76, which are the Parts that the Tangent of 40 Degrees is distant from the Tangent of 45 Degrees. Again, the Tangent of 50 Degrees is 10.076186, and by re- jecting the Characteriftick, and the three lalt Figures, the Parts j6 above 1000, for the Di- vifion of the Tangent of 50 Degrees, which must fall beyond 45 Degrees, are equal to the Parts that theDivision of 40 Degrees wants of 1000. Underftand the fame for the Tangent of any other Degree, or Minute, and it's Complement : the Reason of this is, becauie Radius is a mean Proportional between any Tangent and it's Complement.

The Conftruction of the artificial Sines of the Rhumbs, and quarter Rhumbs, is deduced from a Confideration that the first Rhumb makes an Angle of 11 Deg. 15 Min. with the Meridian ; the second, 22 Deg. 30 Min. the third, 33 Deg. 45 Min the fourth, 45 Deg. csV. therefore to make the Division on Gunter's Scale, for the first Rhumb, take the Extent of the artificial Sine of 1 1 Deg. 15 Min. on the Scale, and lay it off upon the Line drawn to contain the Divisions of the Line of Rhumbs, and that will give the Division for the first Rhumb. Again; take the Extent, ontheLineofartificialSir.es, of the Sine of 22.30 Min. and lay it off in the fame manner as before, and you will have the second Rhumb : proceed thus for all the other Rhumbs. The Divisions for the half Rhumbs, and quarter Rhumbs, are also made in the fame manner : the Divisions of the artificial Tangents of the Rhumbs, are made in the fame manner as the Divisions of the artificial Sines of the Rhumbs, by taking the artificial Tangents of the several Angles that the Rhumbs and quarter Rhumbs make with the Meridian.

The ConJlruHion of the Line of artificial verfed Sines.

This Line, which begins at about 1 1 Deg. 45 Min. and runs to 180 Deg which is exactly under 90 of the Line of Sines (though on the Scale they are numbered backwards ; that is, to the verfed Sine of each 10 Degrees above 20, are fet the Numbers of their Complements to 182, for a Reason hereafter fhewn), may be thus made, by means of the Table of Sines, and the aforsaid equal Parts. Suppose the Division for the verfed Sine of 15 Degrees be to be made. Take half 15 Degrees, which will be 7'. 30" 1 ; the Sine of which doubled will be 18.231396, and by fubftracting the Radius therefrom, you will have 8.231396-, and rejec- ting the three last Figures, and the Characteriftick, there will remain 231 ; this 231 taken from your Scale of 1000, and laid off from a Point directly under the Beginning of the Line of Sines, will give the Division for the verfed Sine of 15 Degrees, at which is fet 165, viz. the Complement of 15* to i8o d . Again; to make the Division for 20 Degrees; twice the Sine of 10 Degrees (it's half) will be 18.470340 ; from which, fubftracting Radius, and re- jecting the Characteriftick, and the three last Figures, you will have 479 ; which taken from your Scale, and laid off from the Beginning of the Line, will give the Division for the verfed Sine of 20 Degrees. And in this manner may the Line of verfed Sines be divided to 180 Degrees, by obferving what I have said in the Conftruction of the Line of Sines.

The Manner of projecting the L ines of Numbers, artificial Sines and Tangents., in Circles^

and Spirals of any Number of Revolutions.

Fig. 7. Suppose the Circle BC is to be divided into a Line of Numbers of but one Radius; first,

divide the Limb into 1000 equal Parts, beginning from the Point G; then take 301 of those Parts, which suppose to be at p, and lay a Ruler from the Center A, on the said Point p y and that will cut the Periphery of the Circle B C in the Point for the Log. of 2. Again, Take 477 Parts upon the Limb, and a Ruler laid from the Center upon the laid Division, will cut the Circle BC in the Point for the Log. of the Number 3 : and thus by taking the proper Parts upon the Limb, from the Point G, which were before directed to be used in dividing this Line upon the Scale ; and laying a Ruler from the Center, may the Line of Numbers be projected upon the Circle BC. And in the fame manner may the Lines of artificial Sines and Tangents be projected, from the Sine of 5 H 45'", and Tangent of 5* 42" 1 , to the Sine of 90 1 , and the Tangent of 45', by taking (as before directed in the Conftruction of the ftraight Lines of Sines and Tangents) the Parts of 1000 for the Degrees and Minutes, and laying them off upon the Limb from the Point G, and then laying a Ruler from the Center, which will divide the Circles into Lines of Sines and Tangents.

ti% t. Now to project a Line of Numbers upon the Spiral of Fig. 8. having four Revolutions, or

Turns; first, divide the Limb into 1000 equal Parts, beginning from thePoint G ; then take 301, which is the Log. of the Number 2 (when the Characteriftick, and the three last Figures are rejected), and multiply it by 4, because the Spiral hath four Revolutions, and the Product is 1204: then if 204 of the Parts of 1000, be taken upon the Limb from G top, and a Ru- ler be laid from the Center A to p, it will cut the second Revolution of the Spiral in the Point for the Number 2. Again ; having multiplied 477, the Log. of the Number 3, by 4, the Product will be 1908; whence taking 908 Parts from the Point G on the Limb, to the Point q&gt; lay a Ruler from A to j, and that will cut the second Revolution of the Spiral, in the Point for the Number 3. Moreover, multiply 602 by 4, and the Product will be 2408 ; whence take 408 Parts upon the Limb from G, and laying a Ruler from A, it will cut the third Revolution of the Spiral in the Point, for the Number 4 : and in thus proceed- ing may the Spiral be divided into a Line of Numbers, whole Beginning is at the Point C, and End at the Point B. This being underftood, it will be no difficult Matter to project the Sines and Tangents in a Spiral of any Number oi Revolutions.

In ufino- either the Circular or Spiral Lines of Numbers, Sines, and Tangents, there is an opening Index placed in the Center A, confiding of two Arms; the one called the ante- cedent Arm, and the other the confequent Arm ; then three Numbers, Sines, or Tangents beino- given, to find a fourth. If you move the antecedent Arm to the first, and open the othe'r Arm to the second (the two Arms keeping the fame Opening), and afterwards the an- tecedent Arm be moved to the third, the confequent Arm will fall upon the fourth re- quired.

But, Note, That as many Revolutions of the Spiral as the second Term is distant from the first, so many Revolutions will the fourth Term be distant from the third.

Of the Meridian Line

The Meridian Line, on Gunter's Scale, is nothing but the Table of Meridional Parts in Mercator's Projection transferred on a Line, which may be done in the following Manner, by help of the Line of equal Parts fet under it, and a Table of Meridional Parts.

Take any one of the large Divisions of the aforsaid Line of equal Parts, whose Length Fig. 9, let be AB, and divide it into fix equal Parts upon some Plane ; at the Points A B raife the Perpendiculars A C, BD, equal to AB, and compleat the Parallelogram A B D C ; divide the Sides AC, BD, into ten equal Parts, and the Side DC into fix, draw the Diagonals AF, 10, 20, C5V. as per Figure, and you will have a Diagonal Scale, by which any part of the aforsaid Division under 60 may readily be taken.

Now to make the Divisions of the Meridian Line, look in the Table of meridional Parts for 1 Degree, and against it you will find 60 : and rejecting the last Figure, which in this Cafe is o, take fix equal Parts from the aforementioned Diagonal Scale, and lay it off on the Meridian Line, which will give the Division for one Degree. Again, to find the Division for 2 Degrees, feek in the Table of Meridional Parts, for the Parts against 2 Degrees, and they will be found 120: whence rejecting the last Figure (which always must be done), take 12 from your Scale, and lay it off from the Beginning of the Meridian Line, and the Division for 2 Degrees will be had. Moreover, to find the Division for 1 1 Degrees, you will find anfwering to it 664 ; and rejecting the last Figure, the Remainder will be 66, which must be laid off from the Beginning of the Meridian Line to have the Division for 1 1 De- grees. But because 66 cannot be taken from the Diagonal Scale, you must take only 6 from it ; and for the 60, take it's whole Length, or else lay off the 6 from the End of the first Division of the Line of equal Parts, and the Division for 1 1 Degrees will be had. In this manner may the Meridian Line be divided into Degrees, and every thirty Minutes, as it is upon the Scale.

There are several other ways of dividing this Meridian Line, but let this fuffke.

The Use of this Line is to project a Mercator's Chart.

ProjeEIion of the Line of Latitudes and Hours.

Upon the End A, of the Diameter of the Circle, erect a Line of Sines at right Angles, of Fig. 10. the Length of the Diameter ; then from the Point B, the other End of the Diameter, draw right Lines to each Degree of that Line of Sines, cutting the Quadrant A C. Now having drawn the Chord-Line A C, which is to be the Line of Latitudes, fet one Foot of your Com- passes upon the Point A, and with the other transfer the Interfections made by the Lines drawn from B, on the Quadrant, to the Chord-Line A C, by means of which it will be di- vided into a Line of Latitudes. Or the Line of Latitudes may be made by this Canon, viz. As Radius is to the Chord of 90 Deg. So is the Tangent of any Degree, to another Tangent, the natural Sine of whose Arc, taken from a Diagonal Scale of equal Parts, will give the Di- vifion, for that Degree, on the Line of Latitudes, and so for any other Degree.

Again, To graduate the Line of Hours, draw the Tangent G H equal to the Diameter AB, and parallel thereto ; then divide each of the Arcs of half the Quadrants A K, KB, into three Parts, for the Degrees of every Hour from 12 to 6, which must again be each fubdivided into Halfs, Quarters, &c. then, if thro' each of the aforsaid Divisions and Sub- divifions, Lines be drawn from the Center, cutting the Tangent Line G H, they will divide the said Line into a Line of Hours.

As for the Line of Inclination of Meridians, ufually put upon Scales, it is nothing but the Line of Hours numbered with Degrees inftead of Time; and the Lines of the Style's Height, and Angle of 12 and 6, fometimes put upon Scales, are made from Tables of the btyle s Height, &c. and no otherwise used.

Whence the Line of Hours is but two Lines of natural Tangents to 45 Degrees, each fet together at the Center, and from thence Beginning and continued to each End of the Dia- meter, and from one End thereof, numbered with 90 Deg. to the other End ; and may other- wife be thus divided : Let A B be the Radius of a Line of Tangents, C D another Radius Fig. it; equal and parallel thereto, and C B the Diameter to either of the said Radius's, which is to be divided into a Line of Hours. Now if right Lines are drawn from the Point D, to every Degree of the Tangent-Line A B, those Lines will divide G B, half of the Line of Hours, as required \ and Lines drawn from the Point A, to every Degree of the Tangent C D, will divide the other half of C B : therefore from the similar Triangles C DF, EFB, it will be as the Radius CD is to the Tangent EB of any Arc under 45: So is CF to F B 3 that is, As Radius is to the Tangent of any Arc under ^5 Degrees, So is Radius j- theCo- Fi_. 12, tangent of the said Arc to 45 Degrees, to Radius — the said Cotangent, as in Fig. 12. As

the Radius A B, to the Tangent BC of any Arc, So is AB-j-EG, to AB — EG: for call A B, r ; and B C, b ; and from th e Point C, draw C F parallel to EG, and make BD

Thus having given the Conftrtiction of the Lines on Gunter's Scale, I now proceed to fhew their manner of using ; but, Note, Thefe Lines are also put upon Rulers to flide by each other, and are therefore called Sliding-Gunters, so that you may use them without Com- pafTes ; but any Perfon that understands how to use them with CompafTes, may also, by what I have said of Everard's and Coggeshall's Sliding-Rules, use them without.

USE of the Li?ies of Numbers, Sines, and Tangents.

USE I. The Base of a right-angled right-lined Triangle being given 30 Miles, and the opposite Angle to it 26 Degrees, to find the Length of the Hypothenufe.

As the Sine of the Angle, 26 Degrees, is to the Base, 30 Miles, So is Radius to the Length of the Hypothenufe. Set one Foot of your Com partes upon the 26th Degree of the Line of Sines, and extend the other to 30 on the Line of Numbers ; the CompafTes remain- ing thus opened, fet one Foot on 90 Degrees, or the End of the Line of Sines, and caufe the other to fall on the Line of Numbers, which will give 68 Miles and about a half, for the Length of the Hypothenufe fought.

USE II. 'The Base of a right-angled Triangle being given 25 Miles, and the Perpendicular 1 5, to find the jingle opposite to the Perpendicular.

As the Base 25 Miles is to the Perpendicular 15 Miles, So is Radius to the Tangent of the Angle fought ; because if the Base is made Radius, the Perpendicular will be the Tan- gent of the Angle opposite to the Perpendicular. Extend your CompafTes on the Line of Numbers, from 15, the Perpendicular given, to 25, the Base given, and the fame Extent will reach the contrary way, on the Line of Tangents, from 45 Degrees, to 31 Degrees, the Angle lought.

USE III. The Base of a right-angled Triangle being given, fitppofe 20 Miles, and the Angle opposite to the Perpendicular 50 Degrees, to find the Perpendicular.

As Radius is to the Tangent of the given Angle 50 Degrees, So is the Base 20 Miles to the Perpendicular fought. Extend your CompafTes on the Line of Tangents, from the Tan- gent of 45 Degrees, to the Tangent of 50 Degrees, and the fame Extent will reach on the Line of Numbers the contrary way, from the given Base 20 Miles, to the required Perpen- dicular, about 23 i Miles.

Note, The Reason why the Extent on the Line of Numbers was taken from 20 to 23 ~ for- wards, is, because the Tangent of 50 Degrees (as I have already mentioned in the Conftruc- tion of the Line of Tangents) fhould be as far beyond the Tangent of 45 Degrees, as it's Complement 40 Degrees wants of 45 Degrees.

USE IV. The Base of a right-angled Triangle being given, suppose 25 Miles, and the Perpendicular 48 Miles; to find the Angle opposite to the Perpendicular.

As the Base 35 Miles is to the Perpendicular 48 Miles, So is Radius to the Tangent of the Angle fought. Extend your CompafTes from 35, on the Line of Numbers, 1048 •, the fame Extent will reach the contrary way on the Line of Tangents, from the Tangent of 45 De- grees, to the Tangent of 36 Degrees 5 Minutes, or $?, Degrees §5 Minutes; and to know which of those Angles the Angle fought is equal to, confider that the Perpendicular of the Triangle is greater than the Base j therefore (because both the Angles opposite to the Per- pendicular and Base together make 90 Degrees) the Angle opposite to the Perpendicular will be greater than the Angle opposite to the Base, and confequently the Angle $-$ Degrees 5$ Minutes, will be the Angle fought.

USE V. The Hypcthcnufe of a right-angled Spherical Triangle being given, suppose 60 Degrees, and one of the Sides 20 Degrees ; to find the Angle opposite to that Side.

As the Sine of the Hypothenufe 60 Degrees is to Radius, So is the Sine of the given Side 20 Degrees, to the Sine of the Angle fought. Extend your Compasses, on the Line of Sines, from 60 Degrees to Radius, or 90 Degrees, and the fame Extent will reach on the Line of Sines the fame way, from 20 Degrees, the given Side, to 1% Degrees 10 Minutes, theQuan- tity of the Angle fought.

USE VI. The Courfe and Dijlance of a Ship given ; to find the Difference of Latitude

and Departure.

Suppose a Ship fails from the Latitude of 50 Deg. 10 Min. North, S. S. W. 48.5 Miles ! As Radius is to the Distance failed 48.5 Miles, So is the Sine of the Courfe, which is two Points, or the second Rhumb, from the Meridian, to the Departure. Extend your Compaf- fts from S, on the artificial Sine Rhumb-Line, to 48.5 on the Line of Numbers ; the fame Extent will reach the fame way from the second Rhumb, on the Line of artificial Sines of the Rhumbs, to the Departure Westing 18.6 Miles. Again, as Radius is to the Distance failed 48-5 Miles, So is the Co-Sine of the Courfe 67 Deg. 30 Min. to the Difference of La- titude. Extend your Compares from Radius, on the Line of Sines, to 48.5 Miles on the Line of Numbers ; the fame Extent will reach the fame way, from 67 Deg. 30 Min. on the Line of Sines, to 44.8 on the Line of Numbers; which converted into Degrees, by allowing 60 Miles to a Degree, and fubftra&ed from the given North-Latitude 50 Deg. 10 Min. leaved the Remainder 49 Deg. 25 Min. the prefent Latitude.

USE VII. The Difference of Latitude and Departure from the Meridian being given ; to

find the Courfe and Dijlance.

A Ship, from the Latitude of 59 Deg. North, fails North-Eastward 'till me has altered her Latitude 1 Deg. 10 Min. or 70 Miles, and is departed from the Meridian $7.5 Miles; to find the Courfe and Distance.

As the Difference of Latitude 70 Miles is to Radius, So is the Departure 57.5 Miles to the Tangent of the Courfe 39 Deg. 20 Min. or three Points and a half from the Meridian. Extend your Compasses from the fourth Rhumb, on the Line of artificial Tangents of the Rhumbs, to 70 Miles on the Line of Numbers : the fame Extent will reach from 57.5 on the Line of Numbers, to the third Rhumb and a half on the Line of artificial Tangents of the Rhumbs. Again ; As the Sine of the Courfe 39 Deg. 20 Min. is to the Departure 57.5 Miles, So is Radius to the Distance 90.6 Miles. Extend your Compasses from the third Rhumb and a half, on the artificial Sines of the Rhumbs,, to 5J.5 Miles on the Line of Numbers, and that Extent will reach from the Sine of the eighth Rhumb, on the Sines of the Rhumbs, to 90.6 Miles on the Line of Numbers.

USE of the Line of Verfed Sines.

The three Sides of an oblique Spherical Triangle being given, to find the Angle opposite to

the great eft Side.

Suppose the Side A B be 40 Degrees, the Side B C 60 Degrees, and the Side AC 06 De- F i* 1* grees, to hnd the Angle A B C. First add the three Sides together, and from half the Sum iubftraa the greater Side AC, and note the Remainder; the Sum will be 196 Degrees, half of which is 98 Degrees ; from which fubftracling 96 Degrees, the Remainder will be two Degrees.

This done, extend your Compasses from the Sine of 90 Degrees, to the Sine of the Side A B 40 'Degrees ; 2nd applying this Extent to the Sine of the other Side B C 60 Degrees you will find it to reach to a fourth Sine about 34 Degrees. Again j from this fourth Sine extend your Compasses to the Sine of half the Sum, that is, to the Sine of 72 Degrees, the Complement of 9 8 Degrees to 180, and this second Extent will reach from the Sine of the Difference 2 Degrees to the Sine of 3 Deg. 24 Min. against which, on the Verfed Sines, itands 151 Deg. 5 o Mm. which is the Quantity of the Angle fought.

That the Reason of this Operation may appear, it is demonftrated in most Books of Tri- gonometry, that As Radius is to the Sine of A B, So is the Sine of B C to a fourth Sine ; a r r r u ' V° Radius ' So is the Difference of the verfed Sines of A C and

• irTi ^ ed S,ne of the Complement of the Angle A B C to 180 Degrees. It

is also demonftrated, that As Radius is to the Sine of half the Sum of any two Arcs, So is the bme of half their D.fterence to half the Difference of the verfed Sines of these two Arcs •whence, if the Sine of A B be called a y the Sine of B C, b, and the Sine of A C, c, the

fourth Sine in the first Analogy will be had ; in faying, as r : a : : b : — . Now to get the

Difference of verfed Sines of A C, and A B -J- BC, let us call the Sine of AB i " BC ~^ AC /&gt;,

But, to avoid multiplying by 2, the verfed Sines on Scales are fitted from this Pro- portion, viz. As Radius is to half the Sine of an Arc, So is half the Sine of the fame Arc, to half the verfed Sine of that Arc.

U S E of the Line of Latitudes and Hours.

Thefe Lines are conjointly used, in readily pricking down the Hour- Lines from the Sub- ftyle, in an Ifofceles Triangle, on any kind of upright Dials, having Centers in any given Latitude; that is, by means of them there will be this Proportion worked, viz. As Radius is to the Sine of the Style's Height, So is the Tangent of the Angle at the Pole, to the Tan- gent of the Hour-Lines Distance from the Subftyle.

Now suppose the Hour-Lines are to be pricked down upon an upright Declining-Plane, declining 25 Deg. Eastwards : First draw C 12 the Meridian, perpendicular to the Horizon- Fig. 14. tal Line of the Plane, and make the Angle FC 12 equal to the Subflyle's Distance from the Meridian, and draw the Line F C for the Subflyle. This being done, draw the Line B A perpendicular to the said Subftyle, passing thro' the Center C ; then out of your Line of Latitudes fet off C A, C B, each equal to the Style's Height, and fit in the Hour-Scale, so that one End being at A, the other may meet with the Subftyle Line at F.

Now get the Difference between 30 Deg. 47 Min. the Inclination of Meridians, and 30 Degrees, the next Hour's Distance letter than the said 30 Deg. 47 Min. and the Difference is 47 Minutes, that is, 3 Minutes in time ; then count upon the Line of Hours,

Hours. Min.

You must proceed thus for the Halfs and Quarters, in getting the Difference between the Half-Hour next leffer (in this Example 22 Deg. 30 Min.) under the Arc of Inclination of Meridians; the Difference is 1 Deg. 17 Min. which in time is 33 Minutes, to be continu- ally augmented an Hour at a Time, and so be pricked off, as before was done for the whole Hours.

If the Hour-Scale reach above the Plane, as at B, so that B C cannot be pricked down ; then may an Angle be made on the upper Side of the Subftyle, equal to the Angle F C A on the under Side, and thereby the Hour-Scale laid in it's due Pofition, having first found the Point F on the Subftyle.

That the Reason of the conjoint Use of these Lines, in pricking off the Hour-Lines from the Subftylar-Line may appear ; let us suppose A C to be the Subftylar-Line, A the Center Fig. 15. of a Dial, B A a Portion of the Line of Latitudes, at right Angles to A C, and B C the

Line of Hours fitted thereto. Now if C D be the Quantity of any Arc taken on the Line of Hours, and a right Line be drawn from the Center A through the Point D, the Angle F AC will be the fame, as that found by faying, As Radius is to the Sine of the Number of Degrees pricked off upon the Line of Latitudes (that is, to the Sine of the Style's Height), From A to B; So is the Tangent of that Number of Degrees pricked off from C to D on the Line of Hours (that is, the Tangent of the Angle at the Pole), to another Tangent,

Now ro prove this, it is evident, from the Conftruction of the Line of Latitudes, that as the Ridius B C is to the Sine B G of an Arc ; So is A C to AB : whence if AC be supposed Radius, B A is the Sine of the Arc pricked down from the Line of Latitudes.

Again, from the Nature of the Line of Hours ; if CD be taken for the Tangent of am Arc, B D will be the Radius thereto. This being evident, let C E be the Tangent of the Angle F A C, then the Triangles BAD, DEC, will be similar ; whence as the Radius B 1 j is to B A, the Sine of an Arc ; so is C D, the Tangent of an Arc, to E C, the Tangent of the Angle FA C.

Of the ConjlruEiion and Uses of the SECTOR.

CHAR I.

Of the ConflruEtion of the Senior.

H E Sector is a Mathematical Inftru merit, whose Use is to find the Pro- portion between Quantities of the fame kind ; as between one Line and another, between one Superficies and another, between one Solid and an- other, &c.

This Instrument is made of two equal Rules, or Legs, of Silver, Brass, Ivory, or Wood, joined to each other by a Rivet, so worked, as to render it's Motion regular and uniform. To do which, first make two Slits with a Saw, about an Inch deep, at one End of one of the Rules, in order to fit therein the Head-Pieces, which muff, be well rivetted. Afterwards the Head mufb be rounded, by filing off the Superfluities, in such manner, that the Middle- Piece and Head- Pieces may be even with each other. Then to find the Center of the Rivet, fct one Foot of your CompafTes at the Bottom of the Middle-Piece, and mark with the other Foot four Sec- tions in the middle of the Rivet, by opening the Middle-Piece of the Joint to four or more different Angles, and the Middle- Point of those Sections will be the Center of the Rivet, and, confequently, also the Center of the Sector. This being done, a Line mud be drawn up- on the Rule from the Center, near the inward Edge, by which Line the inward Edge of the Rule muff be filed ft rait ; the inward Edge of the other Rule being also made ftrait, and flit, to receive the Middle- Piece, you mult cut away it's Corner in an Arc, so as it may well fit the Joint, and then rivet, with three or four little Rivets, the Rule to the Middle- Piece ; by which means the two Legs may eafily open and fhut, and keep at any Opening required. But Care must be taken that the Legs are filed very fiat, and do not twift ; Care must also be taken that the Sector be well centered, that is, that being entirely opened, both Infide and Outfide, may make a right Line, and that the Legs be very equal in Length and Breadth •, in a word, that it be very ftrait every way. Note* The Length and Breadth of the aforsaid Rules are not determinate, but they are commonly fix Inches long, three quar- ters of an Inch broad, and about one quarter in Thicknefs.

There are commonly drawn upon the Faces of this Instrument fix kind of Lines ; viz. tho Line of equal Parts, the Line of Planes, and the Line of Polygons on one Side ; the Line of Chords, the Line of Solids, and the Line of Metals on the other.

There is generally placed, near the Edge of the Sector, on one Side, a divided Line, whose Use is to find the Bores of Cannons •, and on the other Side, a Line fhewing the Dia- meters and Weights of Iron-Bullets, from one Quarter to 64 Pounds, whose Conftruction and Uses we shall give, in fpeaking of the Inftru ments belonging to the Artillery.

SECTION I.

Of the Line of Equal Parts.

THIS Line is so called, because it is divided into equal Parts, whose Number is com- Plate 6. monly 200, when the Sector is fix Inches long. Fig ,

1 kvino- drawn upon one of the Faces of each Leg the equal Lines A B, A B, from the Cen- ter oi the* Joint A: First, divide them into two equal Parts, each of which will confequent- ly be ioo ; then each of those Parts being again divided into two equal Parts, and each Part arifincr will' be $o ; then divide each of these Jaft Parts into five others, and each Part produced wih be io •, and finally dividing each of these new Parts into 2, and each of these last into five equal Parts, and by this means the Lines A B, AB, will be each disaded into 200 equal Parts, every 5 of which mud be distinguished by fhort Strokes, and every 10 numbered t'rom'the Center A to 200, at the other End.

Now because the two other Lines, drawn upon the fame Faces of each Leg, mud ter- minate in the Center A, the Extremity B of the Line of equal Parts must be drawn as near as poffible the outward Edges of each Leg, that so there may be Space enough left to draw the Line of Planes in the middle of the Breadth of the said Legs, and the Line of Polygons near their inward Edg»s ; but Care must be taken, in drawing of these Lines, that each one, and it's Fellow, be equally distant from the interior Edges of each Leg, as may be feen in the Figure.

SECTION II.

Of the Li?ie of Planes.

THIS Line is so called, because it contains the homologous Sides of a certain Number of similar Plants, Multiples of a small one, beginning from the Center A ; that is, whose Surfaces are double, triple, quadruple, i£c. that small Plane, from Unity, according to the natural Order of Numbers, to 64, which is commonly the greateft Term of the Divisions, cknoted upon the Line A C.

This Line may be divided two ways, both of which are founded upon Prop. 20. lib. 6. End which dcmonflrates, That similar Plane Figures are to each other, as the Squares of their homologous Sides. The first way of dividing this Line is by Numbers, and the second without Numbers, as follows :

Having drawn the Line A C, from the Center A, upon each Leg of the Sector ; first di- vide it into eight equal Parts, the first of which; next to the Center A, which reprefents the Side of the least Plane, hath no need of being drawn. The second Division from the Center, which is double the first, is the Side of a similar Plane quadruple the least Plane, (whose Side is fuppoled one of the eight Parts the Line A C is divided into), because the Square of 2 is 4. The third Division, which is three times the first, is the Side of a similar Plane, nine times greater than the first, because the Square of 3 is 9. The fourth Division, which is four times the first, and confequently half of the whole Scale, is the Side of a similar Plane, fix- teen times greater than the first, because the Square of 4 is 16. Laftly, The eighth Divi- fion which is eight times the first, is the Side of a similar Plane, fixty-four times greater, because the Square of 8 is 64.

There is fomething more to do to find the homologous Sides of Planes that are double, triple, quadruple, &c. of the first. For you must have a Scale divided into 1000 equal Parts Fig. 2. (as that whose Conftruction we have already given in Book I.), whose Length must be equal to the Line A C •, and because the Side of the least Plane is '- of the Line A C, it will con- fequently be ' of 1000, which is 125. Again, to have in Numbers the Side of a Plane double the least, the square Root of a Number twice the Square of 1 25 must be found. This Square is 15625, which doubled, is 31250, the square Root of which is about 177, the Side of a similar Plane double the least, whose Side is fuppoled to be 125. Moreover, to have the Side of a Plane three times the first, the square Root of a Number three times the Square of the first must be found. The Number is 46875, and it's Root, which is about 216, is the Side of a similar Plane three times the least, and so of others ; therefore by laying off from the Center A, upon the Line of Planes, 177 Parts of the aforsaid Scale, you will have the Length of the Side of a similar Plane double the least Plane. Again, laying off 2 1 6 Parts of the lame Scale from the C enter A, the Length of *he Side of a similar Plane will be had, which is three times the least Plane.

^ According to the aforsaid Directions, the following Table is calculated, that fhews the Number of equal Parts which are contained in the homologous Sides of all the similar Planes that are double, triple, quadruple, &c. of a Plane whose Side is 125, to the Plane 64, that is, which contains it 64 times, and whose Side is 1000.


Each of the ten Divisions which the Scale of 1000 Parts contains, is 100 ; and each of the Subdivifions of the Line AB is 10 : therefore if it is to be used for dividing any of the Lines of the Sector -&gt; as, for Example, the Line of Planes •, take on the Scale a Line denoting the Hundreds, and the Excefs above must be taken in the Space between the Points- AB : As to denote the first Plane, to which the Number 125 anfwers, place your CompafTes on the fifth Line of the Space marked 100, and open them to the Distance OP; in the fame manner, if the Plane 50 is to be denoted, to which the Number 884 anfwers, for 800 take the 8th Space of the Scale, and for 84 take in the Space A B, the Interaction of the 8th Tranfvcrfal, with the fourth Parallel, which will be the Distance NL.

The Line of Planes may otherwise be divided in the following manner, without Calcula- tion, founded on Prop 47. lib. 1. Eucl. Make the right-angled Ifofceles Triangle KMN, whose Side KM, or K N, let be equal to the Side of the least Plane, and then the Hypo- thenufe M N will be the Side of a similar Plane double to it ; therefore having laid off with your CompafTes the Distance M N, on the Side KL produced, from K to 2, the Length K 2 will be the Side of a Plane double the least Plane. In like manner lay off the Distance M 2, from K to 3, the Line K 3 will be the Side of a Plane triple the first. Again, lay off the Distance M 3, from K to 4, the Line K 4 (twice K M) will be the Side of a Plane four times greater, that is, which will contain the least Plane four times ; and so of others, as may be feen in the Figure.

SECTION III.



Of the Line of Polygons.



This Line is so called, because it contains the homologous Sides of the first twelve regular Polygons inlcribed in the fame Circle, that is, from an equilateral Triangle to a Dodecagon.

The Side of the Triangle being the greateft of all, must be the whole Length of each of the Legs of the Sector ; and because the Sides of the other regular Polygons, inferibed in the fame Circle, ftill diminish as the Number of Sides increafe, the Side of the Dodecagon is least, and confequently must be nigheft the Center of the Sector.

Now supposing the Side of a Triangle to be a thoufand Parts, the Length of the Sides of every of the other Polygons must be found ; and because the Sides of regular Polygons, in- feribed in the fame Circle, are in the fame Proportion as the Chords of the Angles of the Cen- ter of each of the Polygons, it is neceffary to fhew here how to find the said Angles.

To do which, divide 360 Deg. by the Number of the Sides of any Polygon, and the Quotient will give the Angle of the Center.

l^ for Example, the Angle of the Center of a Hexagon is required, divide 360 Deg. by 6, and the Quotient will be 60 ; which fliews that the Angle of the Center of a Hexagon is 60 Deg. If likewise the Angle of the Center of a Pentagon be required, divide 360 Deg. by 5, the Number of Sides, and the Quotient will be 72 •, which fhews that the Angle of the Center of a Pentagon is 72 Deg. and so of others.

The Angle of the Center being known, if it be fubftracted from 180 Degrees, the Remainder will be the Angle of the Polygon : As, for Example, the Angle of the Center of a Pentagon


Regular Polygons.

Angles

Now to find in Numbers the Sides of the regular Polygons inferibed in the fame Circfe : Having supposed that the Side of the equilateral Triangle is 1000 equal Parts, inftead of the Chords of the Angles of the Center, take their Halves, which are the Sines of half the Angles at their Centers, and make the following Analogy.

For Example, to find the Side of the Square, fay, As the Sine of 60 Degrees, half the Ann-le of the Center of the equilateral Triangle, is to the Side of the fame Triangle, fup- pofed 1000 •, So is the Sine of 45 Degrees half the Angle of the Center of the Square, to the Side of the fame Square, which, by calculating, will be found 816.

And in this manner are the following Tables of Polygons conftructed.

We have neglected the Fractions remaining after the Calculation in this Table, as in a, others •, as being but thoufandth Parts, which are not considerable.

Those that will not denote an equilateral Triangle upon the Sector, because of the Facility of defcribingit, and which confequently begin at the Square, use the following Table, where- in the Side of the Square is supposed 1000 Parts.


To make the Line of Polygons upon the Sector (the fame Scale of 1000 equal Parts be- ing used, as that for making the Line of Planes), you must lay ofF from the Center A, upon both the Lines A D, the Number of Parts exprefled in the Table, that thereby the Num- bers 3, 4, 5, csV. may be graved upon the Sector, fignifying the Numbers of the Sides of the regular Polygons.

Of the Line of Chords.

THIS Line is so named, because it contains the Chords of ail the Degrees of a Semi- circle, whose Diameter is the Length of that Line, which is denoted upon the other Surface of each Leg of the Sector, from the Point A, which is the Center of the Joint, to the End F of each Leg ; so that the two Lines A F are exactly equal, and equidistant from the interior Edges of the Sector.

Note, The Line of Chords mud be drawn directly under the Line of equal Parts, because of some Operations that require a Correfpondence between those two Lines.

It is alio proper for the Line of Solids to be drawn under the Line of Planes, and the Line of Metals under the Line of Polygons.

For the Division of the aforsaid Line A F, defcribe a Semicircle, whose Diameter let be equal to it, which divide into 180 Degrees ; afterwards lay off the Lengths of the Chords of all those Degrees upon the Diameter of the Semicircle ; then lay the Diameter of the Se- micircle upon the Legs of the Sector, and mark upon them Points that repRestnt the Degrees of the Semicircle, every filth of which, distinguish by fhort Strokes, and every tenth by Numbers, beginning from the Point A, and going on to F.

The fame Degrees may otherwise be denoted, upon the Line of Chords, by help of Num- bers, in supposing the Semidiameter of a Circle, or the Chord of 180 Degrees, to be 1000 equal Parts •, all of which Numbers may be found ready calculated in the common Tables of Sines : for in (lead of the Chords, there is no more to do but to take their halves, which are the Sines of half their Arcs. As for Example; inilead ok the Chord of 10 Degrees, the Sine of 5 muff, be taken-, and because the Calculation in Tables is made for a Radius of 100000 Parts, the two last Numbers must be taken away, as may be feen in the following Table, where the Chords of all the Degrees to 180 are denoted.

Note, This Division is made with a Scale of 1000 Parts.

SECTION V.

Of the Line of Solids*

THIS Line is so called, because it contains the homologous Sides of a certain Number of similar Solids, Multiples of a leffer from Unity, according to the natural Order of Num- bers, to 64, which is commonly the greateft of the Divisions of this Line, which is marked Fig. 44 A H, next to the Line of Chords.

To make the Divisions upon it, the Scale of 1000 Parts must be used, and the Side of the 64th and created Solid mult be supposed 1000 equal Parts •, then because the Cube-Root of 64 is 4, and the Cube Root of 1 is 1, it follows that the Side of the 64th Solid is quadruple the Side of the first and lead Solid, which confequently will be 250, because (per Prop. %%. lib. 11. Eucl.) similar Solids are to each other, as the Cubes of their homologous Sides.

The Number 500 (twice 250) is the Side of the eighth Solid, that is, of a Solid eight times as great as the firlt : because the Cube of 2, which is 8, is eight times the Cube of

Unity. p /

Likewise the Number 750, which is three times 250, is the Side of the 27th Solid ; be- caufe the Cube of 3, which is 27, is 27 times the Cube of Unity.

There are more Calculations required to find the Sides of Solids double, triple, quadru- ple, &?f. the first, which cannot exactly be expRested in Numbers, because their Roots are incommenfurdble •, ncverthelefs they may be fufficiently approached forUse, by the following Method.

For Example -, To find the Number expreffing the Side of a Solid, twice the first and lead i it's Side 250 mud be cubed, which is 15625000 ; then this Number must be doubled, and the Cube-Root of it extracted, which will be almost 315, for the Side of a Solid double the first. To have the Side of a Solid triple the first, the said Cube must be tripled, and it's Cube- Root, which is 360, will be the Side of a Solid triple the first; and so of others, as may be feen in the following Table.

The Sides of all these Solids being thus found in Numbers, they are denoted on the Lin© of Solids, by laying off from the Center A the Parts which they contain, taken upon the

Scale*

SECTION VI.

Of the Line of Metals.

T HI S Line is so named, because it is used to find the Proportion between the fix Me- tals, or which Solids may be made.

It is placed upon the Legs of the Sector, hard by the Line of Solids, and the Metals are Pig, 4, hgured thereon by the Chara&ers, which have been appropriated to them by Chymifts and

T w DiV u ifi ° n ° f thlS Line 1S founded u P on Experiments that have been made of the diffe- rent Weights of equal Maffes of each of these Metals, from whence their Proportions arc calculated, as in the following Table.


r z The ConfiruSiion and Uses Book II,

A TABLE for the Line of Met ah. Atfoertifment.

That of all the fix Metals which has the leaf! Weight, which is Tin, is marked at the End of each Leg (as A G) at a Distance from the Center, equal to the Length of the Scale of 1000 Parts -, and the other Metals niglier the said Center (each according to the Numbers which correfpond with them), taken upon the fame Scale.

Because mod of the aforementioned Lines, marked on the Sector, are divided by means of the Scale of 1000 equal Parts, it is requifite that they be exactly equal between themfelves and to the said Scale ; therefore, because they all center in one Point (which is the Center of the Joint), they must all be terminated at the other End by an Arc, made upon the Sur- face of each of the Legs.

It is not always necclTary to divide the Sector by the Methods we have given ; for, to make them fooner, prepare a Ruler of the fame Length, Breadth, and Thicknefs as the Sector, and draw upon it the fame Lines we have already prefcribed : then with a Beam- Compass transfer the fame Divisions upon the Sector, having first drawn upon it the Lines vj contain them.

SECTION VII.

Containing the Proofs of the Six Lines commonly put upon the Sec~fcr.

The Proof of the Line of equal Parts.

The Division of this Line is so eafy, that there is no need of any other Proof, but to examine, with your CompalTes, whether the two correfpondent Lines, drawn upon the Legs of the Sector, are very equal, and equally divided ; which may be known by taking be- tween your Compaifts (whose Points let be very fharp) any Number at pleafure of those equal Parts, beginning any where : for if the Line of equal Parts be well divided, by carrying that fame Opening of your CompaiTes on the said Line, the two Points will always contain be- tween them the fame Number of equal Parts upon either of the Legs, reckoning from the Center, or from any other Point of Division.

The Proof of the Line of Chords.

The Method before explained will not ferve to know whether the Line of Chords be well divided, because the Divisions are not equal : the Chord of 10 Degrees, for Example, is greater than half that of 20 ; likewise the Chord of 20 Degrees is greater than the hall of that of 40 Degrees, and so on : so that the Divisions are greater towards the Center of the Sector, than towards the Ends of it's Legs, as is manifelt from the Nature of the Circle. But because we have given two Methods for dividing the Line of Chords, one by help of Numbers, and the other by means of the Chords of Arcs, one of these Methods will lerve to prove the other.

But there is ftiil another Method, which is this : Take at pleafure, on the Line of Chords, two Numbers equally distant from 120 Degrees •, as for Example, no and 130, which are each 10 Degrees distant from it; the first in Defect, and the last in Excefs : Then take in your CompaiTes the Distance of the two Numbers 1 10 and 130, which must be equal to the Chord of 10 Degrees, or to the Distance of the Point 10, upon the Line of Chords, from the Center of the Sector.

You will find, by the fame Means, that the Distance between 100 and 140 Degrees, is equal to the Chord of 20 Degrees ; as likewise Che Distance between 90 and 150 is equal to the Chord of 30 Degrees, which is the Number by which 120 exceeds 90, and by which 150 exceeds 120, and so of others, as may eafily be noted by the aforegoing Table of Chords, where you may fee (for Example) the Number 44, which is the Chord of 5 Degrees, is the Difference between 843, which is the Chord of 115 Degrees -, and 887, which is the Chord of 125 •, as likewise 87, the Chord of 10 Degrees, is the Difference between the Chord of 1 10 Degrees and 130, &c. which are equally distant from 120 Degrees.

Proof of the Line of Polygons.

You may know whether this Line be well divided, by help of the Line of Chords, in the following manner.

Take in your CompaiTes, upon the Line of Polygons, the Distance of the Number 6, de- noting a Hexagon, from the Center of the Joint ; then carry this Distance upon the Line of Chords, putting each Point of your Compallls upon the correfpondent Points, from 60 to 60, denoting the Angle of the Center of an Hexagon.

The Seftor bcin* thus opened, take upon each Line of Chords the Distance of the two Points marked 72 from the Center, and lay it off upon the Line of Polygons, placing one Foot in the Center of the Joint ; then the other loot must reach to the Point 5, which ap- pertains to a Pentagon, whose Angle at the Center is 72 Degrees.

Likewise in taking upon the Line of Chords the Distance of the two Points, denoting go 4 and laying it off upon the Line of Polygons, the Foot of your Compasses must meet the Point 4, appertaining to a Square, whose Angle of the Center is 90 Deg. and so of others.

Proof of the Line of Planes.

Because we have given two Methods for dividing the Line of Planes, one may ferve to prove the other; but (fill you may eafier know whether the Divisions be well made, in the following manner : Take between your Compasses the Distance of any Point upon this Line from the°Ccnter of the Joint, and lay it off from the fame Point on the other Side of the fame Line of Planes ; then the Foot of your Compasses will fall upon the Number of a Plane four times greater than that which was taken towards the Center : and if again your Compasses thus ouened mould be once more turned over, towards the End of the laid Line, the Point would'fall upon the Number of a Plane nine times greater. As, for Example-, if you take the Distance from the Center to the Plane 2, in placing one Point of your Compasses on 2* the other ought to fall upon 8 ; and by turning the Compasses once more, one of it's Points must fall upon 18, which contains 9 times 2. Moreover, in turning the Compasses once more over, the other Point ought to fall upon the Number 32, containing 2, 16 times. If, lastly, you turn over the Compasses again, it must fall upon 50, and so of other similar' Planes/ because they are to each other as the Squares of their homologous Sides. It is this that facilitates the Division of the Line of Planes ; for having the first, these are likewise had, viz. the 4th,- the 9th, the 16th, the 20th, the 25th, the 36th, .the 49th, and the 64th. Having found the 2d, the 8th, the 18th •, the 32d, and the 50th will be had : likewise hav- ing found tfie 3d, the 12th, the 27th, and the 48th will be had-, and so of others.

Proof of the Line of Solids.

You may know whether this Line be well divided, in the following manner : Take be- tween your Compasses the Distance of some Point on this Line from the Center of the Joint j then place one of it's Points, thus opened, upon this Point of Division, and turn the other Point over towards the End of the Line. Now this Point must fall upon the Number of a Solid 8 times greater than that which was taken. Again, if the Compasses be once more turned over, it will fall upon a Solid 27 times greater than that which was first taken. As, for Example ; the F)iftance of the first Solid from the Center-, will be equal to the Diftancfc from 8 to 27, and from 27 to 64. Likewise, twice the Distance from the Center to 3, will be equal to the Distance from 3 to 24. By the 4th Solid, the 32d will be had. Moreover the 5th Solid will give the 40th ; by the 6th the 48th Solid will be had ; and, in a word, by help of the 7th, the 56th Solid will be had -, because similar Solids are to each other, as the Cubes of their homologous Sides, which facilitates the Division of the Line of Solids^

Proof of the Line of Metals.

We have already mentioned, that the Division of this Line is founded upon Experiments made of the different Weights of a Cubic Foot of each of the fix Metals, as they are here denoted.

Metals. Weights of a Cubic Foot.

From these different Weights of the fix Metals the beforementioned Table was calculated by means of which the Line of Metals was divided.

Now because Tin is the lighted of the Laid fix Metals, it* is fnanifeft that if, for Example, a Ball of Tin is to be made of the fame Weight as a Ball of Iron, or Brass, the Ball of Tin must be greater than either of them -, as also the Ball of Iron ought to be greater than that of Brais, and so on to that which will be the lead. Therefore supposing the Diameter of a Ball of Tin to be 1000, the Queftion is to find the Lengths of the Diameters of Iron and Brass- Balls, that may be of the fame Weight as the Ball of Tin.

Now to do this, you must make a Rule of Three, whose first Term let always be the heavieft of the two Metals to be compared ; the second Term must be the Weight of the Tin, and the third must be the Number 64, which is the greateft Solid of the Table of So- lids, to which the Number 1000 anfwers. As, for Example -, to compare Iron, a Cubic Foot of which weighs 558 Pounds, with Tin, a Cubic Foot of which weighs 516 Pounds, 2

Ounces : Having reduced them all into Ounces, the 558 Pounds make 8928 Ounces ; and the 516 Pounds, 2 Ounces, make 8258 Ounces: then lay, if 8928 gives 8258, What will 64 give ? The Rule being finifhed, the fourth Term will be 59 and a small Remainder -, then look for the Number 59 in the Table of Solids, and the Number anfvvering thereto is 973 - 3 inftead of which take 974, because of the remaining Fraction : therefore, I fay, that the Diameter of the Ball of Iron must be 974. In the fame manner, by making four other Rules of Proportion, you may know whether the Numbers, marked against the four other Metals, are well calculated, and confequently, whether the Line of Metals be well divided.

TH E Uses we mail here lay down, are only those that most appertain to the Sector, and which by it can be better performed, than by any other Inflrument.

SECTION I.

Of the U S E of the Lint of equal Parts.

U S E I. To divide a given Line into any Number of equal Parts ; for Example, into seven.

Plate 7. TAKE between your CompafTes the propefed Line, as A B, and carry it, upon the Line

Fig. 1. of equal Parts, to a Number on both Sides, that may eafily be divided by 7, as 70, whose 7th

Part is 10; or else the Number 140, whose 7th Part is 20. Then keeping the Sector thus opened, fhut the Feet of your CompafTes, so that they may fall on the Numbers 10 on each Leg of the Sector, if the Number 70 be used •, or upon the Numbers 20, if 140 be taken for the Length of the proposed Line ; and this opening of your CompafTes will be the 7th Part of the proposed Line.

Note, If the Line to be divided be too long to be applied to the Legs of the Sector, only- divide one half, or one fourth of it by 7, and the double, or quadruple, of this 7th Part* will be the 7th Part of the whole Line.

USE II. Several right Lines, conftituting the Perimeter of a Polygon, being given, one of which is supposed to contain any Number of equal Parts : to find how many of these Parts are contained in each of the other Lines.

Take that Line's Length, whose Meafure is known, bctwetn your CompafTes, and fet it 6Ver, upon the Line of equal Parts, to the Number on each Side, expreffing it's Length. The Sector remaining thus opened, carry upon it the Lengths of each of the other Lines, pa- rallel to the beforementioned Line, and the Numbers that each of them falls on will fhew their different Lengths: But if any one of the said Lines doth not exactly fall upon the fame Number of the Lines of equal Parts, upon both Legs of the Sector; bat, for Inftance, one of the Points of the CompafTes falls upon 29, and the other upon 30 ; the Length of the said Line will be 29 and a half.

USE III. A right Line being given, and the Number of equal Parts it contains \ to take from it a leffer Line, containing any Number of it's Parts.

Let, for Example, the proposed Line be 120 equal Parts, from which it is required to take a Line of 25. First take the proposed Line between your CompafTes, and then open the Sector, so that the Feet of your CompafTes may fall upon 120, on the Line of equal Parts,. upon each Leg of the Sector : The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 25 to 25, and that will give the Line defired. It is manifest, from the three aforementioned Uses, that the Line of equal Parts* upon the Legs of the Sector, may very fitly Terve as a Scale for all kinds of plane Figures, provided that one of their Sides be known ; and that., by means of this Line, they may be augmented or diminished.

USE IV. Two right Lines being given, to find a third Proportional: and three being

given, to find a fourth.

If there be but two Lines proposed, then take the Length of the first between your Com- pafTes, and lay it off upon the Line of equal Parts from the Center, in order to know the Number whereon it terminates; then open the Sector, so that the Length of the second Line may be terminated by the Length of the first. The Sector remaining thus opened, lay off the Length of the second Line upon one of the Legs from the Center-, and, Note, the Num- ber whereon it terminates, and the Distance between that Number, on both Legs of the Sector, will give the third Proportional required,

Let,



Chap. z. of the Se&or. 55

Let, for Example, the first Line proposed be A B, 40 equal Parts ; and the second C D, 20. First take the Length of 20 between your Compasses, and opening the Sector, fet over Fig. 3. this Distance upon 40, and 40 on each Leg of the Sector. TheSector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 20 to 20, which will be the Length of the third Proportional fought; which being mcafured, on the Line of equal Parts, from the Center, you will find it 10 ; for As 40 is to 20, So is 20 to 10.

But if three Lines be given, and a fourth Proportional to them be required ; take the second Line between your Com passes, and, opening the Sector, apply this Extent to the Ends of the first, laid off from the Center, on both Legs of the Sector. The Sector being thus opened^ lay off the third Line from the Center, and the Extent between the Number, whereon it ter- minates on both Legs of the Sector, will be the fourth Proportional required.

Let the first of the three Lines be 60, the second 30, and the third 50 •, carry the Length of 30 to the Extent from 60 to 60 ; and the Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 50 to 50, which is 25, and this will be the fourth Proportional fought: for 60 Is to 30! As 50 to 25.

U S E V. To divide a Line into any given Proportion.

As for Example •, to divide a Line into two Parts, which may be to each other as 40 is to 70: First add the two Numbers together, and their Sum will be no; then take between your Compasses the Length of the Line proposed* which suppose 165, and carry this Length to the Distance, from 110 to 110, on both Legs of the Sector. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Extent from 40 to 40, and also from 70 tO 70 ; the first of the two will give 60, and the latter 105, which will be the Parts of the Line proposed ; for 40 Is to 70, As 60 is to 105.

USE VI. To open the Setter, so that the two Lines of equal Parts may make a right Angle.

Find three Numbers, that may exprefs the Sides of a right-angled Triangle, as 3, 4, or 5* or their Equimultiples ; but since it is better to have greater Numbers, let us take 60, 80, and 100. Now having taken, between your Compasses, the Distance from the Center of the Sector to 100, open the Sector, so that one Point of your Compasses, fet upon 80 on oneLeg* may fall upon 60, of the Line of equal Parts, upon the other Leg; and then the Sector will be so opened, that the two Lines of equal Parts make a right Angle.

USE VII. To find a right Line equal to the Circumference of a given Circle.

The Diameter of a Circle is to the Circumference almost as 50 to 157 ; therefore take* between your Compasses, the Diameter of the Circle, and fet it over, upon the Legs of the Sector, from 50 to 50, on both Lines of equal Parts. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 157 to 157, between your Compasses, and that will be almost equal to the Circumference of the proposed Circle ; I fay almost, for the exact Proportion of the Diameter of a Circle to it's Circumference hath not yet been Geometrically found *.

SECTION II.

Of the U S E of the Line of Planes.

U S E I. To augment or diminijh any Plane Figures in a given Ratio.

LET, for Example, tiie Triangle A B C be given, and it is required to make another Tri- Fig. 4. angle similar, and triple to it.

Take the Length of the Side A B between your Compasses, and open the Sector, so that the Points of your Compasses fail upon 1 and 1, on each Linecf Planes ; the Sector remain- ing thus opened, take the Distance from the third Plane to the third, on each Leg of the Sector, which will be the Length of the homologous Side to the Side A B. After the fame manner may the homologous Sides to the other two Sides of the given Triangle be found* and of these three Sides may be formed a Triangle triple to the proposed one. Note, If the proposed Plane Figure hath more than three Sides, it must be reduced into Triangles, by drawing of Diagonals.

If a Circle is to be augmented or diminished, you must proceed in the fame manner with it s Diameter.

U S E II. Two similar Plane Figures being given ; to find the Ratio between them. Take either of the Sides of one of the Figures, and open the Setter, so that it may Fall upon the fame Number or Division, on the Line of Planes, on both Legs of the Sector. Then take the homologous Side of the other Figure, and apply that to some Number or Di- vifion on both Legs of the Sector ; and then the two Numbers, on which the homologous Sides fall, will exprefs the Ratio of the two Figures. As suppose the Side a b, of the lefter Fig. 5. figure, falls upon the fourth Plane; and the homologous Side A B, of the greater, falls upon the fixth Plane, the two Planes are to each other as 4 to 6. But if the Side of a Figure is ap- plied to the Extent of some Plane, on both Legs of the Sector, and the homologous Side can-

^6 ihe Conjlruciion ana Uses Book II.

not be adjufted parallel to it, so as it may fall on a whole Number on both Legs of the Sec- tor ; then you mult place the Side of the first Figure upon some other Number, on each Leg* 'till a whole Number is found on both Legs of the Sector, whose Extent is equal to the Length of the homologous Side of the other Figure, to avoid Fractions.

If the proposed Figures are so great, that their Sides cannot bo applied to the Opening of the Legs of the Sector, take the half, third, or fourth Parts of any of the two homologous Sides of the find Figures, and compare them together, as before, and you will have the Pro- portion of the laid Figures.

USE III. To open the Seclcr, so that the two Lines of Planes may make a right Angle. Take between your Compaflls the Extent of any Piane from the Centrr of the Sector ; a?, for Example, the 40th : then apply this opening of your Compasses, upon the Line of Planes, on both Sides, to a Number equal to half the precedent one, which, in this Example, is 20-, then the two Lines of Planes will be at right Angles: because, by the Conftruction of the Line of Planes, the Number 40, which may repiefent the longtft Side of a Triangle, signifies a Plane equal to two other similar Planes, denoted by the Number 20 upon the Legs of the Sector: Whence, from Prop. 48. lib. i. Eucl. the aforenamed Angle is aright one.

USE IV. To make a plane Figure similar and equal to two other given similar plane Figures.

Open the Sector (by the precedent Use) so that the Lines of Planes be at right Angles, and carry any two homologous Sides, of the two proposed Figures, upon the Line of Plants, from the Center, the one upon one Leg, and the other upon the other Leg ; and then theDi- ftance of the two Numbers found will give the homologous Side of a plane Figure similar and equal to the two given ones.

As, for Example, the Side of the leftfer Figure being laid off from the Center, will reach to the fourth Plane ; and the homologous Side of the greater Figure, likewise laid off upon the other Leg, will extend to the ninth Piane : then the Distance from 4 to 9 is the homo- logous Side of a Figure equal to the two propofecf ones, by means of which it will be eafy to make a Figure similar to them.

By means of this Use may be added together any Number of similar plane Figures, viz. in adding together the two first, and then adding their Sum to the third, and so on.

USE V. Two similar unequal plane Figures being given ; to find a third equal to their

Difference..

Open the Sector, so that the*two Lines of Planes may make a right Angle ; then lay oft- one Side of the lefler Figure from the Center of the Sector. This being done, take the ho- mologous Side of the greater Figure, and fet one Foot of your Companies upon the Number whereon the first Side terminates, and the other Point will fall on the other Leg, upon the Number required.

As, for Example ; having laid off the Side of the leiTer Figure from the Center, which falls upon the Number 9, take the Length of the homologous Side of the greater Figure, and fet- ting one Foot of your Compasses upon the Number 9, the other will fall on the Number 4 of the other Leg; therefore taking the Distance of the Number 4 from the Center of the: Sector, that will be the homologous Side of a Figure similar and equal to the Difference of the two given Figures, whose Ratio is as 9 to 13.

USE VI. To find a mean Proportional between two given Lines.

Lay off both the given Lines upon the Line of equal Parts, in order to have their Lengths expreffed in Numbers; the lefler of which suppose 20, and the greater 45 : Then open the Sector, so that the Distance from 45 to 45, of the Lines of Planes, be equal in Length to the greater Line. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 20 to 20 of the Line of Planes, which will be the mean Proportional fought •, and having measured it upon the Line of equal Parts from the Center, you will find it to be 30: for As 20 is to 30, So is 30 to 45.

But because the greateft Number on the Line of Planes is 64, if any one of the Lines pro- pofed be greater than 64, the Operation must be made with their half, third, or fourth Parts, in the following manner: Suppose the leiTer Number be 32, and the greater 72 ; open the Sector, so that half of the greater Number, viz. 36, may be equal to the Distance from 36 to 36, of the Line of Planes, upon both Legs of the Sector-, and then the Distance from 16 to 16 doubled, will be the mean Proportional fought.

SECTION III.

Of the U S E S of the Line of Polygons.

USE I. To infer ibe a regular Polygon in a given Circle.

Fig. 6. TA KE the Semidiameter A C, of the given Circle, between your Compasses, and adjuft it

to the Number 6\ upon the Line of Polygons, on each Leg of the Sector •, and the Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance of the two eciual Numbers, cxDreffing the Num- ber



Chap. 2. of the Sector. 57

her of Sides the Polygon is to have : for Example ; take the Distance From 5 to 5, to in- fcribr a Pentagon ; from 7 to 7 for a Heptagon, and so of others : either of these Distances, c-ncd about the Circumference of the Circle, will divide it into so many equal Parts. And thus you may cafily defcribe any regular Polygon, from the equilateral Triangle to the Do- decagon.

USE II. To defcribe a regular Polygon upon a given right Line.

If for Example, the Pentagon of Fig. 6. is to be defcribed upon the Line AB: Take the Fig. $. Length of the Paid Line between your Compafles, and appiy it to the Extent of the Numbers r ,- & o'i the Line of Polygons : The Sector remaining thus opened, take* upon the fame Lines the Extent from 6 to 6, which will be the Semidiameter of the Circle the Polygon is to be 'inferibed in ; therefore if, with this Distance, you defcribe, from the Ends of the given L he A B, two .Arcs of a Circle, their Interferon will be the Center of the Circle.

' If an Heptagon was proposed, apply the Length of the given Line to the Extent of the Numbers 7 and 7, on both Legs of the Sector, and always take the Extent from 6 to 6, to find the Center of the Circle ; in which it will be eafy to inferibe an Heptagon, each Side of which will be equal to the given Line.

USE III. To cut a given Line, as DE, into extreme and mean Proportion.

Apply the Length of the given Line to the Extent of the Numbers 6 and 6, on both Fig. 7. Sides, liuon the Line of Polygons ; and the Sector remaining thus opened, take the Extent of the Numbers 10 and 10, on both Legs of the Sector, which are those for a Decagon. This Extent will give D F* the greateft Segment of the proposed Line, because the greateft: Segment of the Radius of a Circle, cut into mean and extreme Proportion, is the Chord of 26 Decrees, which is the 10th Part of the Circumference.

If the greater Segment is added to the Radius of the Circle, so as to make but one Line* the Radius will be the greater Segment* and the Chord of 36 Degrees will be the lefler Seg- ment.

USE IV. Upon a given Line D F, to defcribe an Jfofceles Triangle, having the Angles

at the Base double to that at the Vertex.

Open the Sector, so that the Ends of the given Line may fall upon 10 and 10, of the Fig. 8. Line of Polygons, upon each Leg of the Sector. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 6 to 6, and this will be the Length of the two equal Sides of the Triangle to be made.

It is manifest that the Angle, at the Vertex of this Triangle, is 36 Degrees, and that each of the Angles at the Base is 72 Degrees ; but the Angle of 36 Degrees, is the Angle of the Center of a Decagon.

U S E V. To open the Seclor fo, that the two Lines of Polygons may make a right Angle

Take between your Compasses the Distance of the Number 5, from the Center, on the Line of Polygons •, then open the Sector, so that this Distance may be applied to the Number 6 on one Side, and to the Number 10 on the other, and then the two Lines of Polygons will make a right Anglo ; because the Square of the Side of a Pentagon is equal to the Square of the Side of a Htxagon, together with the Square of the Side of a Decagon.

SECTION IV.

Of the USES of the Line of Chords.

USE I. To open the Seclor, so that the two Lines of Chords may make an Angle of any

Number of Degrees.

FIRST take the Distance, upon the Line of Chords, from the Center of the Joint, to the Number of Degrees proposed ; then open the Sector, so that the Distance, from 60 to 60 on each Leg, be equal to the aforsaid Distance, and then the Lines of Chords will make the Angle required.

As to make an Angle of 40 Degrees ; take the Distance of the Number 40 from the Fig. 9; Center, then open the Sector, 'till the Distance from 60 to 60, be equal to the said Distance of 40 Degrees. If a right Angle be required, take the Distance of 90 Degrees from the Cen- ter, and then let the Distance from 60 to 60 be equal to that, and so of others.

USE II. The Seclor being opened, to find the Degrees of it's Opening.

Take the Extent from 60 Degrees to 60 Degrees, and lay it off upon the Line of Chords from the Center ; then the Number, whereon it terminates, fheweth the Degrees of it's Opening.

Sights are fometimes placed upon the Line of Chords, by means of which Angles are taken, in adding to the Sector a Ball and Socket, and placing it upon a Foot, to elevate it to the Height of the Eye : but these Operations are better performed with other Instruments.

USE IH. To make a right-lined Angle, upon a given Line, of any Number of Degrees.

Defcribe, upon the given Line, a circular Arc, whose Center Jet be the Point whereof the Angle is to be made ; then lit off the Radius, from 60 to 60, on the Lines of Chore's, The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance of the two Numbers upon each Leg, exprefiing the proposed Degrees, and lay it from the Line upon the Arc defcribed. Laftly, draw a right Line from the Center, through the End of the Arc, and it will make the Angle proposed.

Suppose, for Example, an Angle of 40 Degrees be to be made at the End B, of the Line AB; having defcribed any Arc about the Point B, always lay off the said Radius from 60 to 60 on the Line of Chords (because the Radius of a Circle is always equal to the Chord of 60 Degrees), and lay off the Distance of 40 Deg. and 40 Dtg. from C to D. Laftly, draw- ing a Line through the Points B and D, the Angle of 40 Degrees will be had. Vid. Fig. 10.

By this Use a Figure, whole Sides and Angles are known, may be drawn.

USE IV. A right-lined Angle being given -, to find the Number of Degrees it contains.

About the Vertex of the given Angle defcribe the Arc of a Circle, and open the Sector, so that the Distance from 60 to 60, on each Leg, be equal to the Radius of the Circle. Then take the Chord of the Arc between your Compasses, and carrying it upon the Legs of the Sector, fee what equal Number, on each Leg, the Points of your Compasses fall on, and that will be the Quantity of Degrees the given Angle contains.

U S E V. To take the Quantity of an Arc, of any Number of Degrees, upon the Cir- cumference of a given Circle.

Open the Sector, so that the Distance from 60 to 60, on each Line of Chords, be equal to the Radius of the given Circle. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Extent of the Chord of the Number of Degrees upon each Leg of the Sector, and lay it off upon the Cir- cumference of the given Circle.

By this Use may any regular Polygon be inferibed in a given Circle, as well as by the 1 ine of Polygons, viz. in knowing the Angle of the Center, by the Method and Table before expreffed, in the Conftruction of the Line of Polygons.

For Example; to make a Pentagon by means of the Line of Chords : Having found the Angle of the Center, which is 72 Degrees, open the Sector, so that the Distance from 60 to 60, on each Leg of the Sector, be equal to the Radius of the given Circle ; and then take the Extent from 72 to 72, on each Leg, between your Compasses, which carried round the Cir- cumference, will divide it into five equal Parts, and the live Chords being drawn, the Poly- gon will be made.

USE VI. To defcribe a regular Polygon upon the gh en right Line F G.

As, for Example, to make a Pentagon, whose Angle of the Center is 72 Degrees ; open the Sector, so that the Distance from 72 Degrees to 72 Degrees, on each Line of Polygons, be equal to the Length of the given Line. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 60 to 60, on each Leg, between your Compasses ; with this Distance, about the Ends of the given Line, as Centers, defcribe two Arcs interfering each other in D ; and this D will be the Center of a Circle, whose Circumference will be divided, by the given Line, into five equal Parts.

SECTION V.

Of the U S E S of the Line of Solids.

USE I. To augment or diminish any Jimilar Solids in a given Ratio.

Fig 12. LET, for Example, a Cube be given, and it is required to make another double to it.

Carry the Side of the given Cube to the Distance of some equal Number, on both Lines of Solids, at pleafure ; as, for Example, to 20 and 20. The Sector being thus opened, take the Extent, on both Legs of the Sector, of a Number double to it, that is, of 40 and 40 j and this is the Side of a Cube double the proposed one.

If a Ball or Globe be proposed, and it be required to make another thrice as big ; carry the Diameter of the Ball to the Distance of some equal Number, on both Lines of Solids, at pleafure, as to 20 and 20 ; then take the Distance from 60 to 60 (because 60 is thrice 20), and that will be the Diameter of a Ball three times greater than the proposed one, because Balls are to each other as the Cubes of their Diameters.

If, again, a Cheft, in figure of a right-angled Parallelepipedon, contains three Meafu res of Grain, and it be required to make another similar Cheft to contain five Meafures •, open the Sector, so that the Distance from 30 to 30, on each Line of Solids, be equal to the Length of the Base of the Cheft ; then the Distance from 50 to 50, on each Leg, will be the homologous Side of that Solid to be made. Again, apply the Breadth of the Base to the Di- ftance of the said Numbers 30 and 30, and then the Distance from 50 to 50 will be the ho- mologous mologous Side to the said Breadth. Now having made a Parallelogram with these two Lengths, your next thing will be to find the Depth : To do which, open the Sector, so that the Distance from 30 to 30 be equal to the Depth of the given Cheft; then the Distance from 50 to 50 will be the Depth of the Cheft to be made. This being done, it will be eafy to make the Parallelepipedon, containing the five proposed Meafures.

If the Lines are so long, that they cannot be applied to the Legs of the Sector, take any of their Parts, and with them proceed as before ; then the refpective Parts of the required Dimenfions will be had.

USE II. Two similar Bodies being given ; to find their Ratio.

Take either of the Sides of one of the proposed Bodies between your CompafTes, and having carried it to the Distance of some equal Number, on each Line of Solids, take the homologous Side of the other Solid, and note the Number on each Leg it falls upon ; and then the said Numbers will fbew the Ratio. of the two similar Solids.

But if the Side of the fiift Solid be so applied to some Number on each Leg of the Sector, that the homologous Side of the other cannot be applied to the Extent of some Number on each Leq; •, then you must apply the Side of the first Solid to such a Number on each Line, that the Length of the Side of the second Solid may fail upon some whole Number on each Line of Solids, to avoid Fractions.

USE III. To conjlruff and divide a Line, whoseUse is to find the Diameters of Cannon- Balls.

It is found, by Experience, that an Iron Ball, three Inches in Diameter, weighs 40 Pounds % whence it will be eafy to find the Diameters of other Balls of different Weights, and the fame Metal, in the following manner: Open the Sector, so that the Eiftance from the 4th Solid to the 4th Solid, on each Line of Solids, be equal to three Inches The Sector re- maining thus opened, take upon the Lines of Solids the Distances of all the Numbers, from 1 to 64, on one Leg, to the fame Numbers on the other Leg •, then lay off all these Lengths upon a right Line drawn on a Ruler, or upon one of the Legs of the Sector, and where the Diameters terminate, denote the Weights of the Balls.

But now to mark the Fractions of a Pound, as 4» -■* t» open the Sector, so that the Di- ftance of the 4th Solids on each Leg of the Sector, be equal to the Diameter of a iJall of one Pound. The Sector remaining thus opened, the Distance from the ift Solid to the ift on each Leg of the Sector, will give the Diameter for * of a Pound ; from the 2d to the 2d, for ; of a Pound ■, ard from the 3d to the 3d, for 1 of a Pound, and so of others. When the Diameters of Balls are known, the Diameters or Bores of Cannon, to which they are proper, will likewifc be known : but there are commonly two or three Lines given for the Vent of great Balls, and for leffer ones in proportion. The Diameters of Balls are measured with lphcrick CompafTes, as will be more fully explained among the Instruments for Artillery.

USE IV. To make a Solid similar and equal to the Sum of any Number of similar given

Solids.

Open the Sector, and apply either of the Sides of either of the Bodies to the fame Num- ber on each Line of Solids ; then note on v/hat equal Numbers, on both Legs of the Sector, the homologous Sides of the other Solids fall. This being done, add together the said Numbers, and take the Extent, on both Lines of Solids, of the Number arifing from that Addition •, and this Extent will be the homologous Side of a Body, equal and similar to the Sum of the'given Bodies.

Example •, Suppose the Side chosen of the first Solid be applied to the fifth Solid, on each Leg of the Sector, and the homologous Sides of the others fall, the one on the 7th, and the other on the 8th Solid, on each Line of Solids ; add the three Numbers 5, 7, and 8 together, and their Sum is 20 •, therefore the Distance from 20 to 20, on each Line of Solids, will be the homologous Side of a Body, equal and similar to the three others.

USE V. Two similar and unequal Bodies being given ; to find a third similar and equal

to their Difference.

Open the Sector, and apply either of the Sides of either of the Bodies to some equal Number on each Leg of the Sector, and fee what equal Numbers, on both Legs, the homologous Sides of the other Solids fall upon •, then fubftract the leffer Number from the greater, and take the Distance from the remaining Number, on one Line of Solids, to the fame on the other ; and this will be the homologous Side of a Body, equal to the Difference of the two given ones.

As, for Example ; the Side of the greateft being fet over, upon the Line of Solids, from 15 to 15, the homologous Side of the leffer will be equal to the Distance from 9 to 9-, then taking 9 from 15, there remains 6 : therefore the Distance from 6 to 6 will be the homolo- gous Side of the Solid fought.

USE VI. To find two mean Proportionals between two given Lines. For Example-, suppose there are two Lines, one of which is 54, and the other 16: open the Sector, so that the Distance from 54 to 54, on each Leg of the Sector, be equal to the Length cf the longeft Line. The Sector remaining thus opened, the Distance from 16 td 1 6, on each Leg, will be equal to the greater or' the mean Proportionals, and will be found to be 36. Again, fhutting the Legs of the Sector clofer, 'till the Distance between 54 and 54, on each Leg, be equal to 36 ; then the Distance from 16 to 16 will be the lelTer of the mean Proportionals, and will be found to be 24: AVhence these four Lines will be in conti- nual Proportion, 54, 36, 24, 16.

If the Lines be too Jong, or the Numbers of their equal Parts too great* you muff, takes their half's, thirds, or fourths, &c. and proceed as before. For Example •, to find two mean Proportionals between two Lines, one of which is 32, and the other 256, take the fourth Parts of both the Lines, which are 8 and 64. This being done, open the Sector, so that the Distance from 8 to 8, on each Line of Solids, be equal to 8 ; then take the Dillance from 64- to 64, and that gives 16, for ~ of the first of the two mean Proportionals. Again, open the Sector, so that the Distance from 8 to 8 be equal to 16 ; the Sector being thus opened, the Distance from 64 to 64 will give 16, for 4 of the second of the mean Proportionals fought: whence the mean Proportionals are 64 and 1283 for 32, 64, 128, 256, are proportional.

USE VII. To find the Side of a Cube equal to the Side of a given Parallelepipedon.

First, find a mean Proportional between the two Sides of the Base of the Parallelepipedon 5 then between the Number found, and the Height of the Parallelepipedon, find the first of two mean Proportionals, which will be the Side or the Cube fought.

For Example, let the two Sides of the Parallelepipedon be 24 and 54, and it's Height 63 5 the Side of a Cube equal to it is fought.

Open the Sector, so that the Distance between 54 and 54, on the Line of Planes, be equal to the Side of 54 •, then take the Distance from 24 to 24 on the fame Line, which, measured upon the Line of equal Parts, will give 36 for a mean Proportional. This being done, take 36 between your Cornpasses, and open the Sector, so that the Points of the Compasses may fall upon 36 and 06, on each Line of Solids ; then take the Distance from 63 to 63 on the Lines of Solids, which will be lound almost 44 ;, for the Side of a Cube equal to the given Parallelepipedon.

USE VIII. To cov.flruft mid divide a Gauging-Rod to meafurt Cajks, and other the like

Vessels, proper to hold Liquors.

j:'g, 1 3 The Gauging-Rod, of which we are now going to fpeak, is a Ruler made of Metal, divid-

ed into certain Parts, whereby the Number of Pints contained in a VelTel may be found, in putting it in at the Bung-hole, 'till it's End touches the Angle, made by the Bottom, with that part of the Side opposite to the Bung- hole, as the Line A C diagonally fituated.

The Gauging-Rod being thus pofited, the Division, anfwering to the middle of the Eung- hole, fhews the Quantity of Liquor, or Number of Pints the Veifel, when full, holds.

But it is neceffary to change the Pofition of the aforsaid Rod, so that it's End C may touch the Angle of the other Bottom B, in order to fee whether the middle of the Bung- hole be in the middle of the VelTel ; for if there is any Difference, half of it mult be taken.

The \J{c of this Gauging-Rod is very eafy : for, without any Calculation by it, the Dimen- fions of Cafks may immediately be taken ; all the Difficulty confift only in well dividing it.

Now, in order to divide it, a little Calk, holding a Septier, or Gallon, mult be made fimi- lar to the Vessels that are commonly ulld ; for this Rod will not exactly give the Dimenfions of difiimilar Vessels, that is, such that have the Diameters of the Pleads, those of the Bungs, and the Lengths not proportional to the Diameters of the Head, Bung, and Length of that which the Divisions of the Rod are made by.

Now suppose the Diameter, at the Head of a Calk, be 20 Inches, the Diameter of the Bung 22, and the interior Length 30 Inches •, this VelTel will hold 27 Septiers of Paris Mea- fure, and it's Diagonal Length, anfwering to the middle of the Bung-hole, will be 25 Inches, 9 Lines and a half, as is eafy to find by Calculation : because in the right-angled Triangle ADC, the Side CD being 15 Inches, and DA 21, by adding their Squares together, you will have (per Prop. 47. lib. 1. End.) the Square of the Hypothenufe A C ; and by extract- ing the Square Root, A C will be had.

According to the fame Proportions a Cafk, whose Dimenfions are one Third of the former ones, will contain one Septier, or eight Pints ; that is, if the Diameter of the Plead be 6 In- ches, and 8 Lines ; that of the Bung 7 Inches, 8 Lines ; the Length 8 Inches, 8 Lines j and it's Diagonal 8 Inches, 7 Lines.

Another Cafk, whose Dimenfions are half of that before-mentioned, will contain one Pint ; that is, if the Diameter of the Head be 3 Inches, 4 Lines ; that of the Bung 3 Inches, 8 Lines •, the interior Length of the Cafk 5 Inches ; and the Diagonal, anfwering to the middle of the Bung-hole, 4 Inches, 3 Lines and a half.

Now take a Rod about 3 or 4 Feet long, and chufe either of the three Meafures, which you judge mult proper : As, for Example ; if you will make Divisions for Septiers upon the Rod, make a Point, in the middle of it's Breadth, distant from one of it's Ends, 8 Inches, 7 Lines, and there make the Division for one Septier upon it •, double that Extent, and there make a Mark for 8 Sept'urs &gt; triple the fame Extent, and there make a Mark for 27 Septiers -, quadruple it, and there make a Mark for 64 Septiers; because similar Solids are to each other, as the Cubes of their homologous Sides.

Again, to make Divisions upon it for the other Septiers, take between your Compasses the Length or 8 Inches, 7 Lines ; let over this Distance, upon each Line of Solids of your Sec- tor horn the first Solid to the first. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from the second Solid to the second, which mark upon the Rod for the Division of two Sep-

Acrain ; take the Distance from the third Solid to the third, which mark upon the Rod for the Lenoth of the Diagonal, agreeing to three Septiers, and so on ; by which means the Rod will be\hvided, for taking the Dimenfions of Vessels in Septiers. With the fame facility may the Divisions for Pints be made upon the Rod; for half of the Distance of the Division of two Septiers, will give the Division lor two Pints ; half of the Distance of the Division for three Septiers, will give the Division for three Pints ; half of the Distance of the Division for four Septiers, will give the Division for four Pints, and so on.

If the Sector be not long enough to take the Diagonal Lengtli anfwerable to one Septier, from the first Solid to the first, take the Diagonal Length anfwerable to one Pint •, and having divided the Rod for any Number of Pints, the Diagonal Lengths of the fame Number of Septiers, may be had, by doubling the Diagonal Lengths of the Pints. As, for Example; if the Diagonal Length for 6 Pints be doubled, that Distance will be the Diagonal Length of a Vessel holding 6 Septiers : Also if the Diagonal Length of 7 Pints be doubled, the Length of the Diagonal of a Vessel, holding 7 Septiers, will be had ; and so of other Diagonal Lengths.

If the Diagonal Length is yet too long to be applied to the Distance of the Division for the first Solid, on each Leg of the Sector, it's half must be applied to the fame ; and the Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance of the Divisions for the second Solid on both Lines oi Solids, and double it ; then you will have the Diagonal Length of a Vessel holding two pints. Having again taken the Distance of the Division for the third Solid upon each Leg of the Sector, which Distance being double, the Diagonal Length of a Vefle 1 holding three Pints will be had, and may be marked upon your Rod; and so of others.

The Divisions for Septiers go acrofs the whole Breadth of the Rod, upon which are their refpective Numbers graved ; and the Divisions for Pints are fhorter than the others, for their better Diftinftion.

In order for this Gauging-Rod to ferve to take the Quantity of Liquor contained in diffe- rent difsimilar Vessels, other Divisions may be made upon it's Faces, according to the diffe- rent Proportions of their Lengths and Diameters, and at the bottom of the faces must be writ the Diameters and Lengths by which the Divisions were made: For Example ; at the bot- tom of the Face, upon which the precedent Divisions were made, there is wrote, the Diame- ter of the Head 20, the Diameter of the Bung 22, and the Length 30.

If, for dividing another Face, you use a Vessel, whose Diameter of the Head is 21 Inches, that of the Bung 23, and the interior Length 27 ' Inches ; this Vessel is fhorter than that before-named, but contains almost the fame Quantity of Liquor, when full, viz. 27 Sep- tiers, and the Length of it's Diagonal will be 26 Inches.

If another Vessel hath all it's Dimenfions ' of the precedent ones, this Vessel will hold one Septier, and it's Diagonal AC will be 8 Inches and 8 Lines in Length. Now by means of this Vessel, and it's Diagonal Length, you may divide the aforsaid Face in the Manner di- rected for dividing the first Face, and at the Bottom of this Face you must write, Diameter reduced 22, Length 17 \.

If the four Faces of the Rod are divided, as before-named, you will have four different Gauges for gauging four different kinds of Vessels ; and by examining the Proportions of the ■Diameters of the Heads and Lengths, you must make use of such a Face accordingly.

Inftead of using the Sector in dividing the before-mentioned Gauging-Rod, it is better using the Table of Solids.

For having found, by Calculation, that the Length of the Diagonal of a Vessel, holding 27 Septiers, is 6 Inches, it will be eafy to find the Diagonals of Vessels of any proposed Big- neffes, having the fame Proportions to the Diameters reduced, as 22 to 27 f, or as 4 to 5.

As, for Example ; it is required to find the Diameter of a Quarteau, or Firkin, which holds 9 Septiers ; feek, in the Table of Solids, the Number anfwering to the 9th Solid, which will be found 520 ; at the fame time find the correfpondent Number to the 27th Solid, which will be found 750 : then ftate a Rule of Three, in the following manner ; 750 : 520 : : 26 : 18 ; whence 18 Inches will be the Length of the Diagonal of a Vessel holding 9 Septiers. The Coopers about Paris make their Vessels almost in the Proportion of 4 to 5 ; as is, for Example, a half Muid, having 19 Inches 2 Lines in Diameter reduced, and 24 Inches in Length ; in which Cafe the Diagonal will be 22 Inches, 8 f Lines, as you will eafily find by Calculation.

But, in general, as foon as the Proportions used in making Vessels are known, the Diago- nal of some one of those Vessels, holding a known quantity of Septiers being first found (per Prop. 47. lib. 3. Eucl.) you may afterwards find the Lengths of the Diagonals of all Vessels made in the fame proportion, by means of the aforsaid Table of Solids.

SECTION VI.

Of the ConflruBion and Use of other kinds of Gauging- Rods.

THE Gauging-Rod, of which we have already fpoken, ferves only to find the Quantity of Liquor contained in similar Vtifels •, but that which we are now going to mention, may be used in taking the Dimenfions of difiimilar VefTels.

In order to conftruct the first Gauge of this kind, the Meafure which you use mud be de- termined, by comparing it with some regular Vessel, as a Concave Cylinder, in which a Quart or a Gallon of Water being poured, you must exactly note the Depth occupied by the Water.

As, for Example, if a Gauge is to be made for Paris, where a Pint is 48 Cubic Inches, or 61 Cylindrick Inches, you will find, by Calculation, that a Concave Cylinder, 3 Inches, n 1 Lines in Diameter, and the like Number in Depth, contains one Pint of Paris ; and a Cylinder, whole Dimenfions are double the aforsaid ones, that is, 7 Inches, 10 I Lines, will hold one Septier : for similar Solids ate to each other, as the Cubes of their like Sides. £ig. ,4, This being supposed, lay off that Length of 3 Inches 11 4 Lines, upon one Face of the

Rod, as often as the Length of the Rod will admit, and mark Points, whereon fet 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, &c. each of these Parts may be fubdivided into 4 or more. This Face, thus divided, is called the Face of equal Parts, and is used in measuring the Lengths of VefTels.

You must likewise mark, upon another Face of the Rod, the Diameter of the Cylinder of 3 Inches, 11 I Lines, and then the Diameters of Circles double, triple, quadruple, &V. by any of the Methods before explained for dividing the Line of Planes on the Sector, the eafieifc v\„ , - and fhorteft of which is to make a right-angled Ifofceles Triangle ABC; each of the Legs

about the right Angle of which being 3 Inches, 1 1 4 Lines, the Hypothenufe B C will be the Diameter of a Circle double to that, whose Diameter is 3 Inches, 1 1 4 Lines : therefore having produced one of the Legs AB towards D, lay off the said Hypothenufe from A- towards D, and at the Point whereon it terminates mark the Number 2 ; then take the Di- ftance C 2, and having laid it off upon the Line AD, mark the Number 3 at the Point whreon it terminates. Again, take the Distance C 3, and having laid it off upon the Line A D, there mark the Number 4, &c.

Note, A 4, which is the Diameter of a Circle quadruple the first, is double A C, or A B ; because Circles are to each other as the Squares of their Diameters : whence since A B is 1, it's Square is also 1 ; and the Line A 4 being 2, it's Square must confequently be 4.

To use this Gauge, you must first apply the Face of equal Parts to the exterior Length of the Vessel, from which you must take the Depth of the two Croes, that thereby the true in- terior Length may be had.

This being done, apply the Face of Diameters to the Diameters of the Heads of the Vessel, and note the Number anfwering to them, and whether they are equal ; for if there be any Difference between the Diameters of the Heads, you must add them together, and take half their Sum for the mean Head-Diameter.

Again •, put the Rod downright in at the Bung-hole, in order to have the Diameter of the Bung, which add to the Head-Diameter, and take half the Sum for an arithmetical Mean ; this being multiplied by the Length of the Vessel, will give the Number of Pints the Vef- fel holds.

As suppose the interior Length of a Vessel is 4 1 of the equal Parts of the Rod, the Dia-, meter at the Head 15, and the Bung-Diameter 17 ; add 15 to 17, and their Sum is 32, half of which is 16 ; which multiplied by the Length 4 J, and the Product j6 will give the Number of Pints the Vessel holds.

Now to conftruct the second kind of Rods, it is found, by Experience, that a Cylinder, whose Height and Diameter is 3 Foot, 3 Inches, and 6 Lines, holds 1000 Paris Pints.

Then take upon a Ruler a Length of 3 Feet, 3 Inches, and 6 Lines, which divide into 10 Parts, each of which will be the Height and Diameter of a Cylinder holding one Pint, (because similar Cylinders are to each other as the Cubes of their Diameters). Again, divide each of these Parts into 10 more, which may eafily be done by help of the Line of Lines on the Sector; then each of these last Parts will be the Height and Diameter of a Cylinder holding the 1000th part of a Pint: Every five of these small Parts being numbered, your Fig. 16. Rod will be made. One of these Rods, of 4 or 5 Feet in Length, will ferve to gauge great

VefTels, as Pipes, csV.

To use this Rod, you must note how many of the small Divisions of the Rod the Diame- ters of the Head and Bung, as also the Length, contains.

But, Note, by the Length of a Vessel is underftood the interior Length, which is the Di- ftance between the Plead and the Bottom ; and by the Diameters is underftood the interior Diameters included between the Staves.

Note, also, If the Diameters at Top and Bottom are unequal, compare one of them with the Bung-Diameter, and the middle between these two is called the mean Diameter of the Vessel,

But if the Diameters at Top and Bottom are unequal, add them together, and take half of their Sum, which is called the mean Diameter of the Head and Bottom •, then compare this mean Diameter with the Diameter at the Bung, add them together, and take half their Sum for the mean Diameter of the Vessel.

Then fquarc the mean Diameter of the Veffcl, and multiply the said Square by the Length of the Veffcl; then the Product will give you the Quantity of Liquor in ioooth Parts the Vessel holds-, 'and by cafting away the last three Figures, you will have the Number of Pints contained in 'the Veffcl, when full. .

Let, for Example, the Diameter at the Head be 58 Parts of the Guaging-Rod, and the Buna-Diameter 62; add these two Numbers together, and their Sum will be 120, whose half 60 is the mean Diameter of the Vessel : then the Square of this mean Diameter will be 2600 ; and if this Square be multiplied by the Length of the Vessel, which suppose 80, the Product will be 288000 •, and by taking away the three last Figures* the Number of Paris Pints the Vessel holds will be 288.

This way of Gauging is exact enough for Practice, when there is but a small Difference between the Bung and Head-Diameters, as are the Diameters of Paris-Muids ; but when the Difference between the Bung and Head-Diameters is confiderable, as in the Pipes of Anjou&gt; whofr- uno-Diameters are much greater than the Head-Diameters, Dimenfions taken in the beioi -directed manner will not give the Quantity of Liquor exact enough : But to render the ethod more exact, divide the Difference of the Bung and Head-Diameters into 7 Parts* anc idci 4 of them to the Head-Diameter, and that will give you the mean Diameter : for Example ■, if the Diameter of the Head is 50, and the Bung-Diameter 57, the mean Dia- met. r of the Veffcl will be 54; with which mean Diameter proceed as before.

Having found by the Rod how many Paris Pints a Vessel holds, you may find how many other Mealur. s the fame Vessel holds, in the following manner :

A Paris Pint of frefh Water weighs 1 Pound, 15 Ounces ; therefore you need but weigh the fought Mcafure full of Water, and by the Rule of Three you may have your Defire.

As, lor Example ■, a certain Meafure of Water weighs 50 Ounces, and it is required to find how many of the fame Meafures is contained in a Paris-Muid, which holds 288 Pints : Say, by the Rule of Three, As 50 is to 31, So is 288 Pints to a fourth Number, which will be 178 4 of the said Meafures.

There may be marked Feet and Inches upon the vacant Faces of the aforsaid Gauging-^ Rod, each of which Inches may be fubdivided into four equal r'arts, which Will be a second means to gauge Veffcls ; the Feet are marked with Roman Characters, and the Inches with others.

We have already said, that a Paris Pint contains 61 Cylindrick Inches; therefore having the Solidity of a Vessel in Cylindrick Inches, it mull be divided by 61, to have the Number of Pints the Vessel holds. An Example or two will make this manifest.

Let the Length of a Vessel be 36 Inches, the Head-Diameter 23, and the Bung-Diameter 25 ; add the two Diameters together, and their Sum will be 48, half of which is 24 for the mean Diameter. This Number 24 being squared, will be $j6 ; and this Square being mul- tiplied by the Length 36, gives 20736 Cylindrick Inches : which being divided by 61, the Quotient will give 339 Pints, and about 5.

If the Diameters and Lengths of Vessels are taken in fourth Parts of Inches, the last Product: mud be divided by 3904, to have the Number of Pints contained in a Vessel, when full.

Let, for Example, the Length of a Vessel be o,S i Inches, the Head-Diameter 23 Inches* and the Diameter at the Bung 25 ' Inches ; add the two Diameters together, and their Sum will be 48 , half of which will be 24 -i ; which, for eafe of Calculation, reduce to 4ths i 97 is the Number to be squared, which will be 9409 ; which multiply by 141, and that Product again by 35 ', reduced to 4ths of Inches, will give this Product 1326669 ; which being divided by 3904, the Quotient will (as before) be 339 Pints, and about ■£•

The Conjlruftion and USE of a new Gauging-Rod.

Mr Sauveur, of the Academy of Sciences, has communicated to us a new Gauging-Rod of his Invention, by means of which may be found, by Addition only, the Quantity of Li- quor that any Vessel holds, when full ; whereas hitherto Multiplication and Division has been used in Gauging.

To make this Gauging-Rod, you must first chufe a Piece of very dry Wood, as Sorbaple Fig. 17. or Pear-tree, without Knots, about 5 Foot long, in Figure of a Parallelepipedon, and 6 or 7 Lints in Breadth; Fig. 17. fhews it's four Faces.

Now upon the first of the four Faces are made Divisions for taking the Diameters of Vessels.

The Divisions of the second Face ferves to measure the Lengths of the Diameters.

The Divisions upon the third Face are for finding the Contents of Vessels.

And, Laftly, upon the fourth Face, the Numbers of Septiers and Pints, which the Vessel holds, are marked.

The aforsaid Divisions are made in the following manner :

First, divide the fourth Face into Inches, and each Inch into 10 equal Faits y those Di- vifions denote Pints, and are numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, &c. every 8 being Septiers, becauic 1 Septier is 8 Pints : On the End of this fourth Face is written Pints and Septiers-.

The Divisions of the Other three Faces are made by help of Logarithms, in manner following.

Note&gt; The Divisions of the fourth Face ferve as a Scale to the third, and ought no be contiguous to it.

To divide the third Face of the Red.

If you have a mind to place any Number upon the third Face of you:; Rod ; for Example, 240: feek- in the Table of Logarithms for 240, or the nigheft Number to it, which will be found against 251- in your Table •, then place 240- upon the third Face, over against 252 Pints on the fourth Face,- and, proceeding in this manner, you may divide the third Face.

But because, in the Table of Logarithms, 24.0 doth not (land against 251, but inftead thereof there (lands 2.39996, which nighly approaches it-, therefore to make the Divisions a.% exact as pofiible, you mult add 1 to r.he first Number of the Logarithm 2.40, and then feek for 3.40, over against which ftands 2512 •, which (hews, that the Logar. 240 mult be placed not over against 251 of the Divisions of Pints, but against 251 and two Parts of the Divisions of a Pint, supposed to be divided into 10 Parts more. You muff write Contents at one End of this third Face.

The Manner of dividing the second Face.

A Cylindrical VeSfel, whose Length and Diameter is 3 Inches, 1 1 * Lines, holds one. Paris Pint •, therefore the first part of the second Face, which is without Divisions, mufl be of that Length. This said Length mud be laid off ten times, and more, if poflibie, upon the said Face, upon which make occult Marks •, then one of these Part's must be divided into 100 more, upon a feparate Ruler, ferving as a Scale.

This being done, suppose any Number is to be placed upon' the second Face ; as, for Ex- ample, 60: Seek in the Table of Logarithms for 60, which will be found against 39 and 40, or ratheir against 3981, without having regard to the Numbers 1, 2, 3, that precede it, and which are called Characterifticks : therefore I take 98, or 981, by efteeming one Pare divided into 10, upon the small Scale divided into 100, and I place this Distance next to the third occult Point, which denotes three Centefms, or three Thousandths. You must thus mark Divisions from 5 to 5, and every of these 5ths must again be fubdivided into 5 equal Parts. Finally, upon the End of this Face, you must write Lengths.

The Manner of dividing the first Face.

The first Part of this Face, which is not divided, reprefents the Diameter of a Cylindrical Vessel holding one Paris Pint - y therefore it's Length must be 3 Inches, 114 Lines.

And for dividing this Face, lay ofTupon it the Divisions of the second Face ; but inftead of writing 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, &c. write their Doubles 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, &c. and fubdl- Vide the Intervals into 10 Parts, and at the End of this Face write Diameters.

The U S E of the New Ganging-Rod.

Meafure the Length of the mean Diameter of the VefTel with the Face of Diameters of

your Rod, which suppose to be 153.00. Likewise take the Length of the VefTel

153.00 with the second Face of your Rod, which suppose to be 92 85 ; add these two

92.85 Numbers together, then feek their Sum 245.85 upon the third Face, and over

. against it, on the fourth Face, you will have 36 Septiers, or 288 Pints.

245.85 But to make the Use of this Rod general ; suppose the Weight of a Pint of frefh Water of some Country be 50 Ounces Avoirdupoife-, then feek 31, the Number of Ounces Avoirdupoife a Paris Pint of frefh Water weighs, upon the fourth Face of Septiers of the Rod, which will be found against 239.4 on the third Face. Likewise, against 50 on the fourth Face, anfwers 260.2 on the third Face.

Then from 260.2! f Again from 245.85 before found

Take 239 / \ Take 20.80 And there remains 20.8 j (And there remains 225.05 Now against this Number 225.05, on the third Face, you will find, on the fourth Face, 22 Septiers 2 Pints, or 178 Pints, which is the Number of Pints of that Country a VefTel of the aforsaid Dimenfions holds.

SECTION VII.

Of the USE of the Line of Metals.

USE I. The Diameter of a Ball, of any one of the fix Metals, being given ; to find the Diameter of another Ball of any one of them, which fh all have the fame Weight.

OPEN the Sector, and taking the given Diameter of the Ball between your CompaiTes, apply it's Extremes to the Characters upon each Line of Metals, expreffing the Metal the Ball

Chap. 2. of the Seftor. 65

is made of. The Sector remaining' thus opened, take the Diflance of the Characters of the Metal the fought Diameter is to be of, upon each Line of Metals, and this will be the Dia- meter 'fought. As, for Example, let A B be the Diameter of a Ball of Lead, and it be re- Fig. i8, ouired to find the Diameter of a Ball of Iron, having the fame Weight. Open the Sector, so that the Distance between the Points h and h be equal to the Line A B: The Sector re- maining thus opened, take the Distance of the Points of S on each Line of Metals, and that will "ive CD, the Length of the Diameter fought. If, inftead of Balls, similar Solids of several Sides had been proposed, make the fame Operation, as before, for finding each of their homologous Sides, in order to have the Lengths, Breadths, and ThicknelTes of the Bo- dies to be made.

USE II. To find the Proportion that each of (he fix Metals have to one another, as to their Weight.

For Example ; It is required to find what Proportion two similar and equal Bodies, but of different Weights, have to one another.

Having taken the Distance from the Center of the Joint of your Sector, to the Point of the Character of that Metal of the two proposed Bodies which is lead (and which is always more distant from the Center), apply the said Distance acrofs to any two equal Divisions on both the Lines of Solids. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance on the Line of Metals, from the Center of the Joint to the Point, denoting the other Metal : and apply- in°- it to both Lines of Solids, fee if it will fall upon some equal Number on each Line; if it wUI, that Number, and the other before, will, by permuting them, fhew the Proportions of the Metals proposed.

As, for Example : To find the Proportion of the Weight of a Wedge of Gold, to the Weight of a similar and equal Wedge of Silver.

Ivow because Silver weighs less than Gold, open the Sector, and having taken the Distance from the Center of the Joint to the Point 5, apply it to the Numbers 50 and 50 on each Line of Solids. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from the Center to the Point O, and applying it on each Line of Solids, and you will find it to fall nearly upon the 27th Solid on each Line. Whence I conclude, the Weight of the Gold to the Weight of the Silver, Is as 50 to 27 4-, or as 100 to 54 4 ; that is, if the Wedge of Gold weighs 100 Pounds, the Wedge of Silver will weigh 54 f Pounds, and so of other Metals, whose Proportions are more exactly laid down by the Numbers of Pounds and Ounces that a cubick Foot of each of the Metals weighs, as is expreffed in the Table adjoining to the Proof of the Line of Metals. If" nevertheless their Proportions are required in lefTer Numbers, you will find, that if a Weclge of Gold weighs 100 Marks, a Wedge of Lead, of the fame Bignefs, will weigh about 60 f » one of Silver 54 7, one of Brass 47 ^, one of Iron 42 T - , and one of Tin 39 Marks.

USE III. Any Body of one of the fix Metals being given ; to find the Weight of any one of the five others, which is to be made similar and equal to the proposed one.

For Example ; Let a Ciftern of Tin be proposed, and it is required to make another of Sil- ver equal and similar to it. First weigh the Tin-Ciftern, which suppose 36 Pounds. This being done, optn the Sector, and having taken the Distance from the Center of the Sector to the Point ]) (which is the Metal the new Ciftern is to be made of), apply that Distance to 36 and 36 on each Line of Solids. Then take the Distance, upon the Line of Metals, of the Point n, from the Center; and applying that Distance crofs-wife on each of the Lines of Solids, you will find it nearly fall upon 50 and 50 on each Line: Whence the Weight of a Silver Ciftern must be 50 '- Pounds, to be equal in Bignefs to the Tin-Ciftern. The Proof of this Operation may be had by Calculation, viz. in multiplying the different Weights reci- procally by those of a Cubic Foot of each of the Metals. As, in this Example ; multiplying 720 lib. 12 Ounces, which is the Weight of a Cubick Foot of Silver, by 36 lib. which is the Weight of the Tin- Ciftern; and again, multiplying 516 lib. 2 Ounces, which is the Weight of a Cubick Foot of Tin, by 50 -■ Pounds, which is the Weight of the Silver Ciftern, the two Products ought to be equal.

USE IV. The Diameters, or Sides, of two similar Bodies of different Metals, being given ; to find the Ratio of their Weights.

Let, for Example, the Diameter of a Ball of Tin be the right Line EF, and the Line Fig. 19. G H the Diameter of a Ball of Silver ; it is required to find the Ratio of the Weights of these two Balls. Open the Sector, and taking the Diameter E F between your CompafTes, apply it to the Points U on each Line of Metals. The Sector remaining thus opened, take tne Distance of the Points » on each Leg of the Sector ; which compare with the Diameter G H, in order to fee whether it is equal to it : for if it be, the two Balls must be of the fame Weight. But if the Diameter of the Ball of Silver be lefTer than the Distance of the Points D, on each Leg of the Sector, as here K L is, it is manifest that the Ball of Silver weighs less than the Ball of Tin ; and to know how much, the Diameters GHandGL must be compared together. Wherefore apply the Distance of the Points D , which is G H,

on each Leg of the Sector, to some equal Number on both the Lines of Solids ; as, for Exam- ple, to the Numbers 60 and 60 •■&gt; then note upon what equal Number, on both Lines of So- lids, the Diameter K L falls, which suppose 20 : whence the Ball of Silver, whose Diameter is K L, weighs but -J of the Weight of the Ball of Tin, whose Diameter is EF.

USE V. The Weight and Diameter of a Ball, or the Side of any other Body, of one of the fix Metals, heing given : to find the Diameter or homologous Side of another similar Body of one of the other five Metals, which Jhall have a given Weight.

Fig. 20. Let, for Example, the right Line M N be the Diameter of a Ball of Brass, weighing 10

Pounds •, and the Diameter of a Ball of Gold is required weighing 15 Pounds. You must first find the Diameter of a Ball of Gold, weighing as much as that of Silver, and then aug- ment it by means of the Line of Solids. To do which, open the Sector, so that the Distance between the Points ?, on each Line of Metals, be equal to MN. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance of the Points O and G on each Line of Metals, which fup- pofe to be the Diameter of the Ball of Gold O P; then open the Sector again, and apply this Distance to 10 and 10 of the Line of Solids, on each Leg of the Sector : The Sector remain- ing thus opened, take the Distance from 15 to 15, on each Line of Solids, and this last Ex- tent QJt will be the Diameter of a Ball of Gold weighing 15 Pounds.

Of the Conftru&ion and Uses of the English SECTOR.

TH E principal Lines that are now generally put upon this Instrument, to be used Sector-wife, are the Line of Equal Parts, the Line of Chords, the Line of Sines, the Line of Tangents, the Line of Secants, and the Line of Polygons. Plate 6. The Line of equal Parts, called also the Line of Lines, is a Line divided into 100 equal

Parts ; and if the Length of the Legs of the Sector is fufficient, it is again fubdivided into Halfs and Quarters : they are placed on each Leg of the Sector, on the fame Side, and are numbered by 1, 2, 3, &c. to 10, which is very near the End of each Leg. Thefe Lines are denoted by the Letter L ; it is divided into the fame Number of equal Parts, as the fame Line on the Sector defcribed by our Author. And here note, that this 1 may be taken for 10, or for 100, 1000, 1 0000, &c. as Occafion requires ; and then 2 will fignify 20, 200, 2000, 20000, &c. and so of the Rest.

The Line of Chords is a Line divided after the usual way of the Line of Chords, From a Circle, whose Radius is nearly equal in Length to the Legs of the Sector, beginning at the Center, and running towards the End thereof. It is numbered with 10, 20, &c. to 60, and to this Line, on each Leg, is placed the Letter C.

The Line of Sines is a Line of natural Sines, divided from a Circle of the fame Radius, as the Line of Chords on the Sector was ; these are also placed upon each Leg of the Sector, and numbered with the Figures 10, 20, 30, &c. to 90 ; at the End of which, on each Leg, is fet the Letter S.

The Line of Tangents, is a Line of natural Tangents, divided from a Circle, and is placed upon each Leg of the Sector, and runs to 45 Degrees. It has the Numbers 10, 20, &V. to 45 placed upon it, with the Letter T for Tangent.

There is likewise another small Line of Tangents, divided from a Radius, of about two Inches, and is placed upon each Leg of the Sector ; it begins at 45, which ftands at the Length of the Radius from the Center, and runs to about 75 Degrees or farther, having the Numbers 45, 50, &c. to 75, with the Letter t fet thereto. The Use of this Line (as here- after shall be fhewn) is to fupply the Defect in the great Line.

The Line of Secants is only a Line of natural Secants, divided from a Circle of about two Inches Radius. Thefe are placed upon each Leg of the Sector, beginning, not from the Center, but at two Inches Distance therefrom, and run to 75 Degrees. To these are fet the Numbers 10, 20, &c. to J$, with the Letter S at the End thereof for Secants.

Finally, the Line of Polygons, denoted by the Letter P on each Leg of the Sector, is di- vided in the fame manner as the Line of Polygons on the French Sector ; only there the Num- ber 3, for an equilateral Triangle, is the first Polygon, and here the Number 4 for a Square.

Thefe are the principal Lines that are now put upon this Sector, to be used Sector-wife.

The other Lines, that are placed near and parallel to the outward Edges of the Sector, on both Faces thereof, and which are to be used, as on Gunter's Scale, are,

1/?, The Line of artificial Sines, numbered (as per Fig.) with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, on one of the Legs, and with 6, 7, 8, &c. to 90, on the other Leg •, which last Numbers, as they appear in the Figure, must be fet backwards •, to the End, that when the Sector is quite opened, they may become forwards. This Line is denoted bv the Letter S, fignifying Sines.
2&lt;#y, The Line of artificial Tangents, placed next below the Line of artificial Siries is numbered, on one Leg, i, 2, 3, 4, 5, and on the other 6, 7, 8, &?c. to 45. which last are likewise fet backwards ; but the Numbers 80, yo&gt; 60, 50, placed at theDivisions 10, 20, 30* 40, which fignify their Complements, are fet forwards.

Sdfyy Near the Edges, on the other Face of the Sector, is a Foot divided into 12 Inches* numbered 1, 2, 3, &c. and each Inch into 20 equal Parts. There is fet to it In. fignifying Inches.

4 //;/y, and Laftfy, Next to that is placed Gunter's Line of Numbers, denoted by the Lettef N, as per Figure.

There are alio some other Lines placed fometimes upon the vacant Spaces of the Sector* as the Lines of Hours, Latitudes, and Inclinations of Meridians ; which are no otherwise used than if they were placed upon common Scales.

All the aforsaid Lines, except the small Lines of Tangents, Secants, and the Line of Po- lygons, are furnifhed with Parallels, and the Divisions marked by unequal Lines, that the Lye may the better diflinguifh them.

SECTION I.

Of the general USE and Foundation of the Sector.

The Excellency of this Instrument above the common Scales, or Rules, is, that it may be made to fit all Scales and Radius's ; for by the Sector you may divide a Line, not exceeding it's L&lt; ngth when quite opened, into any Number of equal Parts ; also from the Line of Chords, Sines, i angents, &c. placed on the Sector, as before directed, you may have a Line cf Chords, Sines, Tangents, tic. to any Radius, betwixt the Breadth and Length of the Sector when opened •, by which Contrivance a Sector is made almost an univerfal Instrument. The Inven- ts 1 and Contrivance of this Instrument arofe from a premeditate Confideration of Prop. IV. Lib. 6. Eucl. where it is demonftrated that similar Triangles have their homologous Sides proportional.

For let the Lines A B, A C, reprefent the Legs of the Sector; and AD, AE, two equal Plate 1 Sedtions from the Center : then, I fay, if the Points C, B, also D, E, are joined, the Lines C B, F ie z\ DE, per Prop. II. Lib. 6. Eucl. will be parallel ; therefore because the Lines D E, CB, are parallel, the Triangles A D E, A C B, per Scbol Prop. IV. Lib. 6. Eucl. will be similar; and confequently from the fa.d Prop. IV. the Sides A D, D E, A B, B C, are proportional : that is, As D A S v° °,^ S °/ S ,^ B t0 BC ' whence if A D be the half, or a third part of the Side AB, D E will be a half, or a third part of the Parallel CB; the like Reason holds of all other Sect.ons : whence you fee that if A D be the Chord, Sine, or Tangent of any Number of Degrees, to the Radius AB, DE will be the Chord, Sine, or Tangent of the fame Num* ber ot Degrees to the Radius B C.

Now the Lines found out by the Sector, are of two Sorts, viz. Lateral, or Parallel : Lateral are such as are found upon the Sides of the Sector, as A B, A C : Parallel are the Lines that run from one Leg of the Sector to the other, in equal Divisions from the Center, as D E, C B. _ And here note, that the innerrnoft of the Parallels, is the true divided Line, and therefore in using the CompafTcs, you must fet them upon the innerrnoft Line, both in lateral and pa- rallel Lntrance. r

And further note, that the Lines are placed upon this Sector, different from those that are placed upon Sectors formerly made; for inftead of putting the fame Lines at equal Distances from the mward Edges of both the Legs of the Sector, they are put at unequal Distances, as may be fee n m theLigure: where, upon one Leg the Line of Chords is innerrnoft, upon the other the Line of Tangents is innerrnoft; that is, the innerrnoft Line of Chords and Tangents

nrnr qU l^h r a "VT t\ r"^ Edge ' and f ° are the outermost Line of Chords and Tan- gents The Benefit of the Contrivance is this, When you have fet the Sector to a Radius for

tw x?6c &gt; and \ flu r°K f ° r , the S ' neS f nd T / ngentS With0ut ftirrin S " I ^ the Parallel be- 1 eoual X\& ? f r hc £ ho r rd \ 9° and 1 90 of the Sines, also 45 and* 45 of the Tangents, are all equal, which is the Reason that the Chords run but to 60 Degrees/

SECTION II.

Of the general USE./ the Lines of Chords, Sines, Tangents, and Secants,

on the Se5ior.

toZvfrilSt P !h C l ng th K efe - Lines ; as b f fore ^eded, on this Instrument, we have Scales the Sector ,£„' , aUS ' hav,r !g aLen gth, or Radius given (not exceeding the Length of

Prop ny This InT^n, } ' ^ T V* *?? fi " d the Chord &gt; ®°* &lt;*■ the ' et0 » for ^hich luperry, tnis lnitrument is often of great Use

Inches HL SU1 ^ fe f e ? 0rd r' Sine&gt; or ' Tan g c " of 10 Degrees, to a Radius of three mcues, be uquiitd : take that three Inches, and make it a Parallel between 60 and 60 on the

Line



6 8 The Conflruclion and Uses B o o k 1 1 .

Line of Chords, then, as I have already said, the fame Extent will reach from 45 to 45, on the Line of Tangents ; also on the other Side of the Sector, the fame Distance of three Inches, •will reach from 90 to 90 on the Line of Sines : so that if the Lines of Chords be fet to any Radius, the Lines of Sines and Tangents are also fet to the fame. Now the Sector being thus opened, if you take the parallel Distance between 10 and 10 on the Line of Chords, it ■will give the Chord of 10 Degrees. Also if you take the parallel Distance on the Line of Sines between 10 and 10, you will have the Sine of 10 Degrees. Laftly, if you take the parallel Extent on the Line of Tangents, between 10 and 10, it will give you the Tangent of 10 Degrees.

If the Chord, or Tangent of 70 Degrees, had been required ; then for the Chord you must take the parallel Distance of half the Arc proposed, that is, the Chord of 35 Degrees, and repeat that Distance twice on the Arc you lay it down on, and you will have the Chord of 70 Degrees ; and for finding the Tangent of 70 Degrees to the aforsaid Radius, you must make ufe of the small Line of Tangents : for the great one running but to 45 Degrees, the Parallel of 70 cannot be taken on that, therefore take the Radius of three Inches, and make it a Pa- rallel between 45 and 45 on the small Line of Tangents •, and then the parallel Extent of 70 Degrees on the said Line, is the 7'angent of 70 Degrees to 3 Inches Radius.

If you would have the Secant of any Arc, then take the given Radius, and make it a Pa- rallel between the Beginning of the Line of Secants, that is o and o ; so the parallel Distance between 10 and 10, or 70 and 70, on the said fecantLine, will give you the Secant of 10, or 70 Degrees, to the Radius of three Inches.

After this manner may the Chord, Sine, or Tangent of any Arc be found, provided the Radius can be made a Parallel between 60 and 60 on the Line of Chords, or between the small Tangent of 45, or Secant of o Degrees. But if the Radius be so large, that it cannot be made a Parallel between 45 and 45 on the small Line of Tangents, then there cannot be found a Tangent of any Arc above 45 Degrees, nor the Secant of no Arc at all to such a Radius, because all Secants are greater than the Radius, or Semi-diameter of a Circle.

If the Converfe of any of these things be required •, that is, if the Radius be fought, to which a given Line is the Chord, Sine, Tangent, or Secant of any Arc, suppose of 10 De- grees ; then it is but making that Line (if it be a Chord) a Parallel on the Line of Chords between 10 and 10, and the Sector will ftand at the Radius required j that is, the parallel Extent between 60 and 60, on the said Chord-Line, is the Radius.

And so if it be a Sine, Tangent, or Secant, it is but making it a Parallel between the Sine, Tangent, or Secant of 10 Degrees, according as it is given ; then will the Distance of 90 and 90 on the Sines, if it be a Tangent, the Extent from 45 to 45 on the Tangents, and if it be a Secant, the Extent or Distance between o and o, be the Radius.

Hence, you fee, it is very eafy to find the Chord, Sine, Tangent, or Secant to any Radius.

SECTION in.

Of the U S E of the Sefior in Trigonometry.

USE I. The Base AC of the right-lined right-angled Triangle ABC being given 40 Miles 1 and the Perpendicular A B 30: to find the Hypothenufe B C.

Fig. 22. Open the Sector, so that the two Lines of Lines may make a right Angle (by Use VI. of

our Author's) then take, for the Base, A C, 40 equal Parts upon the Line of Lines on one Leg of the Sector ; and for the Perpendicular A B, 30 equal Parts on the Line of Lines upon the other Leg of the Sector. Then the Extent from 40 on one Line, to 30 on the other, taken with your CompafTes, will be the Length of the Hypothenufe B C ; and applying it on the Line of Lines, you will find it to be 50 Miles.

USE II. The Perpendicular A B of the right-angled Triangle ABC being given 30 Mile s, and the Angle B C A 3 7 Degrees ; to find the Hypothenufe B C.

Fig. zz. Take the given Side A B, and fet it over, as a Parallel, on the Sine of the given Angle

A C B ; then the parallel Radius will be the Length of the Hypothenufe B C, which will be found 50 Miles, by applying it on the Line of Lines.

USE III. The Hypothenufe B C being given, and the Base A C ; to find the Perpen- dicular A B.

Fig. zt. Open the Sector, so that the two Lines of Lines may be at right Angles ; then lay off the

given Base AC on one of these Lines from the Center; take the Hypothenufe BC in y`our CompafTes, and fetting one Foot in the Term of the given Base A C, caufe the othe`r to fall on the Line of Lines on the other Leg of the Sector, and the Distance from the Ce`nter to where the Point of the CompafTes falls, will be the Length of the Perpendicular A` B.

USE IV. The Hypothenufe B C being given, and the Angle ACB; to find the Perpendicular AB.

Take the given Hypothenufe B C, and make it a parallel Radius, and the parallel Sine of the Angle A C B will be the Length of the Side A B.

Lf S E V. The Base A C, and Perpendicular A B being given, to find the Angle B C A* Lay off the' Eafe A C on both Sides of the Seder from the Center, and note it's Extent j then take the Perpendicular A B, and to it open the Seta in the Terms of the Base A C : so the Parallel Radius will be the Tangent of B C A&gt;

U S E VI In any right4ined Triangle, as ABC, the Sides A C, and B C, being given, one 20 Miles, and the other 30, and the included Angle ACB 110 Degrees, to find the Base AH. Open the Sector, so that the two Lines of Lines may make an Angle equal to the given An- Fig. z 3 . ale A C B of 1 10 Degrees •, then take out the Sides AC, C B, of the Triangle, and lay them off from the Center of the Sedor on each of the Lines of Lines, and take in your Compasses the Extent between their Terms, or Ends, and that will be the Length of the fought Side AB, which will be found 41 i Miles.

USE VII. The Angles CAB, and AC B, being given, and the Side C B : to find the Base AB. Take the given Side CB, and turn it into the parallel Sine of it's opposite Angle C AB» Fig. 23. and the parallel Sine of the Angle ACB, will be the Length of the Base A B.

USE VIII. The three Angles of a Triangle, as A B C, being given, to find the Pro- portion of the Sides A B, AC, B C. Take the lateral Sines of the Angles ACB, C B A, CAB, and measure them in theLine Fig. t%. of Lines, for the Numbers belonging to those Lines Will give the Proportions of the Sides.

USE IX. The three Sides AC, A B, C B, being given, to find the Angle ACB. Lay the Sides AC, C B&gt; on the Lines of Lines of the Sector from the Center, and let the Fig. 23. Side A B be fitted over in their Terms ; so shall the Sector be opened in those Lines, to the Quantity of the Angle ACB.

USE X. The Hypothenufe AC, of the right-angled Spherical Triangle ABC, being given, suppose 43 Degrees, and the Angle CAB, 20 Degrees, to find the Side C B.

As Radius is to the Sine of the given Hypothenufe 43 Degrees, So is the Sine of the given Fig. t£ Angle C AB 20 Degrees, to the Sine of the Perpendicular C B.

Take either the lateral Sine of the given Angle CAB, 20 Degrees, and make it a parallel Radius ; that is, take 20 Degrees from the Center on the Line of Sines, in your Compasses, and fet that Extent from 90 * o 90 ; then the parallel Sine of 43 Degrees, the given Hypo* thenufe, will, when measured from the Center on the Line of Sines, give 13 Deg. 30 Min. Or take the Sine of the given Hypothenufe A C, 43 Degrees, and make it a parallel Radius j and the parallel Sine of the given Angle CAB, taken and measured laterally on theLine of Sines, will give the Length of the Perpendicular C B, 13 Deg. 30 Min. as before.

USE XI. The Perpendicular B C given, and the Hypothenufe AC, to find the Base A B.

As the Sine Complement of the Perpendicular B C, is to Radius, So is the Sine Comple- j- x „ t .3 ment of the Hypothenufe AC, to the Sine Complement of the Base required.

Make the Radius a parallel Sine of the given Perpendicular B C, viz. 76 Deg. 30 Min* and then the parallel Sine of the Complement of the given Hypothenufe, viz. 47 Degrees, measured laterally on the Line of Sines, will be found 49 Degrees, 25 Minutes : therefore the Complement of the required Base, will be 49 Degrees, 25 Minutes j and confequently the Base will be 40 Degrees, 35 Minutes.

The Use of the Sector in the Solution of the before- mentioned Cafes of Trigonometry, being underftood, it's Use in folving the other Cafes, which I have omitted, will not be difficult.

Note, The several Uses of the Line of Lines, and Line of Polygons, on this Sector, are the fame as the Uses of these Lines upon the French Sector, which fee.

I now proceed to give some of the particular Uses of the Sector in Geometry, Projection of the Sphere, and Dialling.

SECTION IV.

USE I. To make any regular Polygon, whose Area shall be of a given Magnitude. LET it be required to find the Length of one of the Sides of a regular Pentagon, whose fuperficial Area shall be 125 Feet, and from thence to make the Polygon.

Having extracted the square Root of 4. Part of 125 (because the Figure is to have 5 Sides) which Root will be 5 •, make the Square A B, whose Side let be 5 Feet : then by means of the Line of Polygons (as directed by our Author in USE I. of the Line of Polygons) upon any Fi . ,-• right Line, as CD, make the Ifofceles Triangle CGD fo, that CG, being the Semi-diame- 8 * *' ter of a Circle, C D may be the Side of a regular Pentagon inferibed in it, and let fall the

T Perpendicular



70 ^fhe Conflrucfion and Uses Book II.

Perpendicular G E. Now continuing the Lines E G, and E C, make E F equal to the Side of the Square AB ; and from the Point F, draw the right Line F H parallel to G C ; then a mean Proportional between G E, and EF, will be equal to half the Side of the Polygon fought, which doubled, will give the whole Side. Now having found the Length of the whole Side, you must, upon the Line exprefling it's Length, make a Pentagon (as directed by our Author in USE II. of the Line of Polygons), which will have the required Magnitude.

U S E II. A Circle being given., to find the Side of a Square equal to it.

Fig. 26. Let E F be the Diameter of t' e given Circle, which divide into 14 equal Parts, by means of

the Line of Lines (as directed by our Author in the Uk of the Line of equal Parts), then EP, which is 12.4 of those Parts, will be the Side of the Square fought. Note, 12.4 is the square Root of 1 1 x 14.

USE III. A Square being given, to find the Diameter of a Circle equal to it.

Fig. 27. Let A B be one Side of the given Square, which divide into 1 1 equal Parts, by means of

the Line of Lines on the Sector; then continue the said Side, so that AG may be 12.4; that is, 1.4 of those Parts more, and the Line A G, will be the Diameter of a Circle, equal to the Square whose Side is A B.

USE IV. 'The tranfverfe and conjugate Diameters of an Ellipfis being given, to find the

Side of a Square equal to it.

Fig. 28. Let AB, and CD, be the tranfverfe and conjugate Diameters of an Ellipfis: first, find a

mean Proportional between the tranfverfe and conjugate Diameters, which let be the Line EF; then divide the said Line EF, into 14 equal Parts, 12 and T \- of which, will be E G, the Side of the Square equal to the aforsaid Ellipfis.

U S E V. 'To find the Magnitude of tzvo right Lines which fimll be in a given Ratio ; about which, an Ellipfis being defcribed, in taking them for the tranfverfe and conjugate Diameters, the Area of the said Ellipfis, may be equal to a given Square.

Fig. 29. Let the given Proportion that the tranfverfe and conjugate Diameters are to have, be as

2 to 1 ; then divide the Side A B of the given Square, into 1 1 equal Parts. Now as 2 is to 1 (the Terms of the given Proportion), So is 1 1 x 14 = 154 to a fourth Number ; the square Root of which being extracted, will be a Number to which, if the Line AG is taken equal (supposing one of those 1 1 Parts the Side of the Square is divided into, to be Unity), the said Line A G, will be the conjugate Diameter fought. Then to find the tranfverfe Diameter, fay, As i is to 2, So is the conjugate Diameter AG, to the tranfverfe Diameter fought. To work the first of the said Proportions by the Line of Lines on the Sector, fet 1 over as a Parallel on 2 ; then the parallel Extent of 154 taken, and laterally measured on the Line of Lines, will give 77, the fourth Proportional fought. In the fame manner may the latter Proportion be worked.

USE VI. To defcribe an Ellipfis, by having the tranfverfe and conjugate Diameters given.

Fig. 30. Let A B, and E D, be the given Diameters : take the Extent AC, or C B, between your

CompafTes, and to that Extent, open the Legs of the Sector fo, that the Distance between 90 and 90 of the Line of Sines, may be equal to it : then may the Line A C be divided into a Line of Sines, by taking the parallel Extents of the Sine of each Degree, on the Legs of the Sector, between your CompafTes, and laying them off" from the Center C ; the Line A C be- ing divided into a Line of Sines (I have only divided it into the Sine of every 10 Degrees) from every of them raife Perpendiculars both ways. Now to find Points in the said Perpen- diculars, through which the Ellipfis must pass, take the Extent of the femi- conjugate Diameter C E, between your CompafTes; and then open the Sector fo, that the Points of 90 and 90, on the Lines of Sines of the Sector, may be at that Distance from each other. This being done, take the parallel Sines of each Degree, of the Lines of Sines of the Sector, and lay them off, on those Perpendiculars drawn thro' their Complements, in the Line of Sines A C, both ways from the said Line A C, and you will have two Points in each of the Perpendicu- lars thro' which the Ellipfis must pass.

As for Example, the Sector always remaining at the fame Opening, take the Distance from 80 to 80, on the Line of Sines, between your CompafTes, and letting one'Foot in the Point 10, on the Line AC ; with the other make the Points a and b, in the Perpendicular patting thro' that Point: then the Points a and b, will be the two Points in the said Perpendicular, thro' which the Ellipfis must pass. All the other Points, in this manner, being found, if they are joined by an even Hand, there will be defcribed the Semi Ellipfis DAE. In the fame manner may the other half of the Ellipfis be defcribed.

Fig. 31. USE VII. The Bearings of three Towers, fianding at ABC, to each other Icing given, that

is, the Angles ABC, B C A, and CAB; and also the Distances of each of them /rem a fourth Tower fianding between them, as at D, being given -, that is, B D, D C, and A D bang

f .v.«. • to find the Distances of the Towers at A B C from each other ; that is, to find the

Lengths of the Sides AB, BC, AC, of the Triangle ABC.

1 laving drawn the Triangle EFG similar to A B C, divide the Side E G in the Point H; Fig. 3 a. Co th it EH may be to H G, as A D is to D C; which may be done by taking the Sum of the l'iivs A I) and DC between your CompafTes, and fetting that Extent over as a Parallel on the I ine of Lines of the Sector, upon the Side EG of the Triangle, laterally taken ori the Line of Lines ; for then the parallel Extent of A D will give the Length of E H, and ronlVquently the Point H will be had. ,..,,,.., , t^ t l tt?

Jn like manner must the Side EF (or F G) be divided so in I, that E I may be to I F, as A J) is to D B (or FG must be so divided, that the Segments must be as B D to DC).

Aeain, having continued out the Sides EG, E F, fay, As E H — H G is to H G, So is EH° II G toGK; and as EI — IF is to IF, So let E I ^-1 F be to F M, which Proportions may cafily be worked by the Line of Lines on the Sector. This being done, bi- iect H K and I M, in the Points L N ; and about the said Points, as Centers, and with the Defiances L H arid IN defcribe two Circles interfering each other in the Point O •, to which, from the Angles EFG, draw the right Lines E O, F O, and O G, which will have the lame Proportion to each, other, as the Lines AD, B D, DC. Now if the Lines EO, h (), and G O are equal to the given Lines AD, BD, DC, the Distances E F, FG, and Eg! will be the Distances of the Towers fought. But if E O, OF, OG are lefTer than A D, D B, D C, continue them out fo, that P O, OR, and O O be equal to them ; then the Points P, Q^, R being joined, the Distances PR, R Cv, and P Q^will be the Distances of the Towers fought. Laftly, If the Lines E O, OF, O G, are greater than AD, D B, D C, cut off from them Lines equal to A D, BD, D C, and join the Points of Section by three right Lines ; then the Distances of the said three right Lines, will be the fought Di- ftances of the three Towers.

Note, If E H be equal to H G, or E I to I F, the Centers L and N, of the Circles, will be infinitely distant from II and I ; that is, in the Points H and I there must be two Perpen- diculars raifed to the Sides E F, EG, inftead of two Circles, 'till they interfect each other : But if E II be lefTer than H G, the Center L will fall on the other Side of the Base EG continued •, underftand the fame of" EI, IF.

USE VIII. To projeil the Sphere Orthographic ally upon the Plane of the Meridian. Let the Radius of the Meridian Circle, upon which the Sphere is to be projected, be A E i Plate %'* then divide the Circumference of the said Circle into four equal Parts in E, P, JE, S, and F - u draw the Diameters E^i, PS; the former of which will reprefent the Equator, and the lat- ter PS, the Hour-Circle of 6, as also the Axis of the World ; P being the North-Pole, and S the South-Pole. Then must each Quarter of the Meridian be divided into 90 Degrees, by making the Extent from 60 to 60 of the Line of Chords, on the Sector, equal to the Ra- dius of the Meridian Circle •, and taking the parallel Extent of every Degree, and laying them off from the Equator towards the Poles ; in which if 23 Deg. 30 Min. be numbered, (viz. the Sun's greateft Declination) from E to 2b Northwards, and from JE to Yf South- wards, the Line drawn from 25 to Yf will be the Ecliptick, and f he Lines drawn Parallel to the Equator, through 2* and Yf t will be the Tropicks.

Now if each Semidiameter of the Ecliptick be divided into Lines of Sines (by making the Distance of the Points of 90 and 90, on the Line of Sines of the Sector, equal to either of theSemidiamcters, and taking out the parallel Extent of each Degree, and laying them off both ways from the Center A), the first 30 Degrees, from A towards 25, will ftand for the Sign Aries ; the 30 Degrees next following for Taurus ; the Rest for n, ss, Sl,'&c. in their Order.

If, again, A P, AS, are divided into Lines of Sines, and have the Numbers 10, 20, 30, Isc. to 90 fet to them, the Lines drawn thro' each of these Degrees, parallel to the Equator, will reprefent the Parallels of Latitude, and fhew the Sun's Declination.

If, moreover, A E, A JE are divided into Lines of Sines, and also the Parallels, and then there is a Line carefully drawn thro' each 15 Degrees; the Lines so drawn will be Elliptical, and will reprefent the Hour-Circles ; the Meridian P E S the Hour of 12 at Noon ; that next to it, drawn thro' y$ Degrees from the Center, the Hours of 1 1 and 1 -, that which is drawn thro' 60 Degrees from the Center, the Hours of 10 and 2, &V.

Then with refptct to the Latitude, you may number it from E, Northwards, towards Z, and there place the Zenith (that is, make the Arc EZ 51 Deg. 32 Min. for London) ; thro' which, and the Center, the Line Z A N being drawn, will reprefent the vertical Circle paf- fing thro' the Zenith and Nadir East and West ; and the Line M A H, crofting it at righr Angles, will reprefent th*e Horizon. Thefe two being divided, like the Ecliptick and Equa- tor, the Lines drawn thro' each Degree of the Radius A Z, parallel to the Horizon, will re- prefent the Circles of Altitude, and the Divisions in the Horizon, and it's Parallels will give the Azimuths, which will be Ellipfes.

Laftly, If thro' 18 Degrees in A N, be drawn a right Line I K, parallel to the Horizon, it will fhow the Time of Day-breaking, and the End of Twilight. For an Example of this Projection, let the Place of the Sun be the last Degree of « , the Parallel passtng thro' this Place is L D, and therefore the Meridian Altitude will be M L ; the Depreffion below the Horizon at Midnight H D •, the femidiurnal Arc L C; the feminocturnal Arc CD •, the De- clination Ab ; the afcenfional Difference b C ; the Amplitude of Afcenfion A C: The Dif- ference between the End of Twilight, and the Break of Day, is very small •, for the Sun's Parallel hardly croffes the Line ot Twilight.

If the Sun's Altitude be given, let a Line be drawn for it parallel to the Horizon ; so ic shall crofs the Parallel of the Sun, and there fhew both the Azimuth and the Hour of the Day. As suppose the Place of the Sun being given, as before, the Altitude in the Morning was found, 20 Degrees, the Line F G, drawn parallel to the Horizon thro' 20 Degrees in AZ, would crofs the Parallel of the Sun in O ; wherefore F O fhews the Azimuth, and L O the Quantity of the Hour from the Meridian, which is about half an Hour pad 6 in the Morn- ing, and about half a Point from the East. The Distance of two Places may be also fhewn by this Projection, in having their Latitudes and Difference of Longitude given.

For suppose a Place in the East of Arabia hath 20 Degrees of North Latitude, whose Dif- ference of Longitude from London, by an Eclipfe, is found to be five Hours and an half: Let Z be the Zenith of London, and the Parallel of Latitude for that other Place be L D, in which the Difference of Longitude isLO; wherefore O reprefenting the Pofition of that Place, draw thro' O a Parallel to the Horizon M H, croffig the vertical A Z about 70 Degrees from the Zenith ; which multiplied by 69, the Number of Miles in a Degree, gives 4830 Miles, the Distance of that Place from London.

USE IX. To projeel the Sphere Stereograpbically upon the Plane of the Horizon ; suppose 1 for the Latitude of 5 1 Degrees, 3 2 Minutes.

jr,-g z Draw a Circle of any Magnitude at pleafure, as N E, S W, reprefenting the Horizon •, in

which draw the two Diameters, WE, N S, eroding one another at right Angles, which will be the Reprefentations of two great Circles of the Sphere crolTing each other at right Angles in the Zenith. Let N reprefent the North, E the East, S the South, and W the West Part of the Horizon.

Note, In all these Projections, the Eye is commonly supposed to be in the Under-pole of the primitive Circle, projecting that Hemifphere which is oppofed to the Eye, which will all fall within the primitive Circle-, but that Hemifphere in which the Eye is, will all fall without the primitive Circle, and will run out in an infinite annular Plane, in the Plane of the Pro- jection, and confequently cannot all of it be projected by Scale and Compass.

I. But now let us begin with projecting the Equinoctial. And here we mult first deter- mine the Line of Meafures, in which the Center of this Circle will be ; and this will be done by determining in what Points a Plane, perpendicular to the primitive Circle, will cut the Horizon, whether in the North and South, East and West, or in what other intermediate Points such a Plane shall cut it. The Pole of the World, in this Projection, is elevated 51 Deg. 32 Min. and confequently the Equinoctial, on the Northern Part of the Horizon, will fall below the Horizon, and it is the Southern Part which here mult be projected, or which will fall within the primitive Circle ; that Plane, whose Interfection with the Horizon shall produce the Line of Meafures, will be the Plane of a Meridian palling thro' the North and South Parts of the Horizon : "wherefore N S will be the Line of Meafures, in which the Center of the projected Equinoctial mult fall •, and since it is the Southern Part of the Equinoctial which we are to project, it's Center will be towards the North.

To find whereabouts in the Line of Meafures the said Center will fall, you must first open the Legs of the Sector, so that the Distance from 45 Degrees to 45 Degrees, on the Lines of Tangents, is equal to the Radius of the primitive Circle ; then take the parallel Extent of the Tangents of 38 Deg. 28 Min. the Height of the Equinoctial above the Plane of the Ho- rizon, and lay it off from Z to n, and ;/ will be the Center of the projected Equinoctial ; and the Secant of the fame, 38 Deg. 30 Min. will give it's Radius, with which the Circle WQJS must be defcribed, which is the Reprefentation of that part of the Equinoctial which is above our Horizon, for the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.

II. We will next project the Ecliptick, which being a great Circle of the Sphere, must cut the Equinoctial at a Diameter's Distance ; that is, in E, W, the East and West Points of the Horizon, and confequently will have the fame Line of Meafures with that of the Equinoctial, viz. N S. Now let us confider whether the Center of the Ecliptick falls towards the North, or towards the South of the Horizon ; and this will eafily be determined, by confidering that the Equinoctial is elevated above the Southern Part of the Horizon 38 Deg. 28 Min. and the Northern Part of the Ecliptick, or the Northern Signs, are elevated above the Equinoc- tial 23 Deg. 30 Min. which in all, make 62 Degrees, which is leffer than 90 Deg. So that it must fall towards the South, and confequently the Center must be Northwards, and will be found (the Sector remaining open as before), by fetting off the Tangent of 62 Deg. from z to b, and the Secant of 62 Deg. will give it's Radius ; with which the Circle W C E, the Reprefentation of the Northern half of the Ecliptick, must be defcribed.

The Southern Part of the Ecliptick is likewise, for the most part, projected on the hori- zontal Projection, and made to fall within the primitive Circle ; but this cannot be, the Globe remaining fixed: for that part of the Ecliptick, which is below the Horizon, will be thrown out of the primitive Circle •, so that it cannot be projected, unlefs the Globe be supposed to of the Englifh SecStor. j*

be turned round, and by that means the Southern Part of the Ecliptick to be brought above the Horizon •, but such a Revolution of the Sphere, where it makes any Alteration, is fcarce allowable: however, I mail (hew how it is uibally projected.

The fame Line of Meafures N S remains ftill, and the Circle must fall to the South, and confcquently it's Center to the North of the Horizon ; therefore nothing remains but to find it's Elevation above the Horizon. The Northern Part of the Ecliptick falls 23 Deg. 30 Min. nearer the Zenith than the Equinoctial does ; therefore the Southern Part, being brought a- bove the Horizon, must be 23 Deg. 30 Min. nearer the Horizon than the Equinoctial : So that 23 Deg. ^o Min. being taken from 38 Deg. 28 Min. there remains 15 Deg. for the Di franco of that part of the Ecliptick above the Horizon. It will be reprefented by W e E, which is defcribed by fetting off the Tangent of 15 Degrees for the Center, and taking the Secant of the fame for the Radius.

III. NS produced will alfb be the Line of Meafures for all Parallels of Declination, and Parallels of Latitude : for the Poles of leiTer Circles being the fame as those of the great Cir- cles, to which they are parallel, it is manifest that the lame Plane, which is at right Angles to the Equinoctial and Horizon, will also be at right Angles to all leiTer Circles parallel to the Equinoctial, and the fame will hold as to Circles parallel to the Ecliptick : But N S is the Line of Meafures of the Equinoctial and Ecliptick, and confequently must be the Line of Meafures of all Circles parallel to either of them; therefore the Centers of such leiTer Circles will be in N S produced, if there be Occafion. Now to project them, for Inftance, the Tropick of Cancer ; confider, in this Pofition of the Sphere, what will be it's neaRest and greateft Distance from the Zenith, or the Pole of the primitive Circle, which you will find to be 28 Degrees ; for the Equinoctial being elevated 38 Deg. 28 Min. above the Horizon, and the Tropick of Cancer being 23 Deg. 30 Min. from the Equinodial, which, being added together, gives 62 Deg. which fubftracted from 90 Deg. leaves 28 Deg. it'sDistance from the Zenith on the South-side of the Horizon •, therefore the Half- Tangent of 28 Deg. or the Tan- gent of i4Deg. fet from Z to C, will give one Extremity of it's°projected Diameter: Then the Distance from the Zenith to the Pole, being 38 Deg. 28 Min. and from the Pole to the Tropick of Cancer 66 Deg. 30 Min. the Sum of these, viz. 104 Deg. 58 Min. will be it's grcateft 1 hftance from the Zenith •, the Half- Tangent of which, fet from Z to a, will give the other Extremity of it's projected Diameter : therefore having got C a the Diameter, bifect it, and defenbe the Circle « C 2?.

The Tropick of Capricorn may be defcribed in the fame manner : for the Distance of the Equinoctial and the Zenith being 51 Deg. 32 Min. if to this be added 23 Deg. 30 Min. you will have 55 Deg. 2 Min. equal to the neaRest Distance of the Tropick of Capricorn, on the South-lice of the Horizon ; the Half- Tangent of which being fet from Z to*, will give one Extremity of it s Diameter. Then the D.ftance between the Zenith and the Pole, viz. 38 Deg. 28 Mm and the Distance between the Pole and the Equinoctial, which is 00 Deg. and the D.ftance between the Equinoctial and the Tropick of Capricorn^ which is 23 Deg. 30 Mm. being all added together, will give the greateft Distance of the Tropick of Capricorn, Irani the Zenith, viz 152 Deg. 2 M.n. the Semi-tangent of which being fet from Z towards the North will give the other Extremity of the Diameter. Bifed the Diameter found in e&lt; and defenbe the Circle * C tf, which is the Reprefentation of so much of the Tropick of Capricorn, as talis within the primitive Circle. Ji^ f°' a , r Circle is a 3 Deg. 30 Min. from the Pole-, but the Pole being elevated,

£ N( 7 h " fu l e the H ™™&gt; 5i Deg. 32 Min. and 51 Deg. 32 Min. added t°o 23 Deg 30 Mm. whose Sum is 75 Deg. 2 Min. is leiTer than 9 o Deg. Vthat it does not pass be- yond the Zenith •, therefore 75 Deg. 2 Min. taken from 9 o Deg. leaves 15 Deg. which is the neaRest D.ftance of the Polar Circle from the Zenith : And the^Half-Tangent^f 15 Dei fet fron Z to., will give one Extremity of it's projected Diameter , and then , 5 Deg' addtd to nfwh g H «Tl W r^ ml ± b£ U S greateft D,ftance from the Ze nith: the Half-Tangent tr o tlS V n n' ' fr ° m Z l°- P ' , Wll) give the 0ther Extremit y of ^'s projected Diame- fcribed sDlameter *P b ^B found, it is but bifecting it/and the Circle may be de-

must be deterZed^ *T 1° ?'%* ^ ? our - Circl «- And, First, a Line of Meafures

l t he Horizon and for^P. f^ '° fcrVC them aH : f ° r thc 7 ^ ^^ ' nclined

zon and a the' r?ir ? f ? 0n l great Cirde Can be at "ght Angles to (he Hori-

Horizon n I on^o f Thrn V^V 1 * P ^e of a great Circl? at right Angles to the

all S Ancls to rh p pI" ^[°^ d: . which is P offible &gt; because the Hour-Cirdes being

ce* but the Pole, f Plane °^ Equinoctial, their Poles will be all found in this C\r-

Qrcle of 2 and rhe H ^F 1 ^^ 9° Degrees distant from their Planes, the Hour^

fowilbcAr\thr ^^° Ur " CirCle0f L 6 ' must ^ neceffity pass thro' each other's Poles, and

he Horizon lnl£ t g rV°- ^^V ? Ut the Hour-Circle of 12 is at right Angles to

n which the CV„ f^ "i? N S J theref ° re the Line N S w &gt;» be the Line'of Me?fures,

Soul Par -of 2 H Hour- Circle of 6 will be, and it's Center will be towards the"

wTras tl Nor SepT' ^ ? ^ Hour " Ci ^ pass thro' the Pole which falls to-

tne Noith, the Elevation of this Circle above the Horizon being the fame with that oF the Pole, viz. 51 Deg. 32 Min. then take the Tangent of 51 Deg. 32 Min. and fet it from Z to K •, and upon the Center K, and with the Secant of" the fame Elevation, defcribe WPE, which is the Circle required.

The Point P, where N S, WE, interfect one another, is the Reprefentation of the Pole of the World •, forNS being the Reprefentation of the Hour-Circle of 12, the projected Pole must be fomewhere in this Line -, but it mult be some where in W E, which is likewise the Projection of an Hour-Circle : therefore it must be in that Point where these two pro- jected Circles interfect one another, that is, in the Point P -, P is the Point thro' which all the Hour-Circles must pass in the Projection.

In order to draw the Rest of the Hour-Circles, we must have recourfe to a Secondary Line oF Meafures, which may thus be determined : To P K, at the Point K, erect D B at right Angles, and produce the Circle WPE, 'till it meet the Line DB, in the Points D and 13 ; and the Line D B will be the secondary Line of Meafures in which the Centers of all the Hour-Circles will be found-, for let the Hour-Circle of 6, D PB, be confidered as the pri- mitive Circle, in whose Under-Pole (which will be in the Equinoctial) K, let the Eye be placed ; then DB will be the Reprefentation of the Equinoctial, for it palTing thro' the Eye will be projected into a right Line : but the Equinoctial is at right Angles to the Hour-Circles, both the primitive and all the Rest-, therefore it will be the secondary Line of Meafures, upon this Suppofition, upon which will be all their Centers. In order to find which, fet the Sector to the Radius P K, then take off parallel-wife the Tangents of 1 5 Deg. 30 Deg. 45 Deg. the Elevations of the Hour-Circles above the Hour-Circle at 6, and fet them both ways, from K to r, from K to/, from K to r, &c. then upon those Centers, and with the Secants of the fame Elevations, defcribe the Circles P P, PQ^, and P T, which will be the Hour-Circles ; for they are all great Circles of the Sphere, passing thro' the Pole P, and make Angles with one another of 15 Deg. or are 15 Deg. distant from each other: and the Portions of those Cir- cles which fall within the primitive Circle NESW, as HPi&gt;, are the Reprefentations of those Halves of the Hour-Circle, which are above our Horizon in our Latitude.

VI. In like manner the Circles of Longitude may be drawn, by determining the secondary Line of Meafures R S, in which all their Centers will be; and this Line will be determined after the fame manner with D B above, and the Circles of Longitude drawn as before the Meridians were drawn : for the Line N S will be the Line of Meafures, with refpect to one of them palling thro' E and W, the East and West Points of the Horizon. In order to draw this Circle, confider it's Elevation above the Horizon, which will be found by confidering the Distance of the Pole of the Ecliptick, from the Pole of the World, which will be 28 Deg. 2 Min. the Elevation of this Circle above the Horizon. Set the Tangent of 28 Deg. 2 Min. from Z to Q, and with the Secant of the fame Distance, defcribe the Circle W p E -, to p Ck, at the Point Q, erect R S at right Angles, which will be the secondary Line of Mea- fures. In this Line from Q^ (the Sector being fet to p Q_), fet off the Tangents of 24 Deg. 40 Deg. according to the Number of Circles you have a Defire to draw, from Qjo x, from Q^to_v, &c. and with the Secants of 20 Deg. 40 Deg. &c. defcribe the Circles of Longitude, MPm, &c.

VII. The Reprefentations of Azimuths, in this Projection, will be all right Lines, and any Number of them may be drawn, making any afllgned Angles with one another, if the Limb be divided into it's Degrees by help of the Sector, and thro' these Degrees be drawn Diame- ters to the primitive Circle.

VIII. All Parallels of Altitude, in this Projection, will be Circles parallel to the primitive Circle, and may be eafily drawn, by dividing a Radius of the primitive Circle, into Half- Tangents, and defcribing upon the Center Z, thro' the Points of Division, concentrick Cir-? cles. I shall omit drawing of them, left the Scheme be too much perplexed.

USE X. l io projeel the Sphere Stereographically upon the Plane of the Solflitial Colure

for the Horizon of 51 Deg. 32 Min.

fig. 3&gt; Draw the Circle HBOC, reprefenting the primitive Circle; and the Diameter H O,

reprefenting the Horizon: Set off the Chord of 51 Deg. 32 Min. from O to P, having first fet the Sector to the Radius of the Circle, which will give the Polar Point, and draw the Diameter Pp, reprefenting the Hour-Circle of 6.

I. The Equinoctial may be reprefented, by drawing the Diameter E Q^at right Angles to the Diameter Pp.

II. Set off 23 Deg. 30 Min. from the Chords, from E to 20, and from Qjo kf, which will reprefent the Ecliptick.

III. The Tropicks of Cancer and Capricorn may be drawn thus : Take the Secant of 66 Deg. 30 Min. the Distance of each of them from their refpedtive Poles, and fet it both ways, from the Center A in P p produced, which will give the two Points e e the Centers of the two Cir- cles, and their Radii will be the Tangents of the fame 66 Deg. 30 Min.

IV. The Polar Circles, as also all other Parallels of Declination, may be drawn in the fame manner.

V. The Line of Meafures for the Azimuths will be H O, and the Line of Meafures for the Almacanters will be B C.

VI. sf • V, or the Ecliptick, will be the Line of Meafures for the Circles of Longitude, and the Line 'of Meafures for the Circles of Latitude will be N S, all of which may be eafily drawn from what is said in the precedent Use.

VII. The Ecliptick may be divided into it's proper Signs in this Projection, by fetting off the Tangents of 15 Deg. 30 Deg. 45 D eg- both ways from A.

USE XI. To draw the Hour -Lines upon an erett diRest South Plane, as also on an

Horizontal Plane.

First, draw the indefinite right Line C C, for the Horizon and Equator, and crofs it at Fig. 4. right Angles in the Point A, about the middle of the Line, with the indefinite right Line A B, ferving for the Meridian, and the Hour Line of 12. then take out 15 Deg. from the Line of Tangents, on the Sector (the Sector being fet to a parallel Radius leffer than the Extent from 4- Deg. to 45 Deg. of the leffer Lines of Tangents, when the Sector is quite opened), and lay them off in the Equator on both Sides from A, and one Point will ferve for the Hour of 1 j, and the other tor the Hour of 1. Again, Take out the Tangent of 30 Deg. (the Sector beino- opened to the fame Radius), and lay it off on both Sides the Point A in the Equator, and one of these Points will ferve one for the Hour of 10, and the other for the Hour of 2. In the fame manner, lay off the Tangent of 45 Deg. for the Hours of 9 and 3, the Tangent of 60 Deg. for the Hours of 8 and 4, and the Tangent of J5 Deg. for the Hours of 7 and 5; But note, because the greater Tangents on the Sector run but to 45 Deg. therefore you must fct the parallel Radius of the leffer Tangents, when you come above 45 Deg. to the Extent of the Radii of the greater Tangents.

Now if you have a mind to fet down the Parts of an Hour, you must allow 7 Deg. 30 Min. for every half Hour, and 3 Deg. 45 Min. for one quarter. This done, you must confider the Latitude of the Place in which the Plane is, which suppose 5 1 Deg. 30 Min. then if you take the Secant of 5 1 Deg. 32 Min. off from the Sector, it remaining opened to the parallel Radius of the leffer Tangents, and fet it off from A to V, this Point V will be the Center of the Plane •, and if you draw from V, right Lines to 1 1, 10, 9, &c. and the Rest of the Hour Points, they will be the required Hour Lines.

But if it happen, that some of these Hour Points fall out of the Plane, you may thus remedy yourfelf, by means of the larger Tangents.

At the Hour Points of 3 and 9, draw occult Lines parallel to the Meridian ; then the Di- ftances D C, between the Hour Line of 6, and the Hour Points of 3 and 9, will be equal to the Semi-diameter A V; and if they be divided in the fame manner as the Line AC is di- vided, you will have the Points of 4, 5, 7, and 8, with their Halves and Quarters.

For\take out the Semi-diameter A V, and make it a parallel Radius, by fitting it over in the Tangents of 45 and 45 ; then take the parallel Tangent of 15 Deg. and it will give the Distance from 6 to 5, and from 6 to 7. The Sector remaining thus opened, take out the parallel Tangent of 30 Deg. and it will give the Distance from 6 to 4, and from 6 to 8 : the like may be done for Halves and Quarters of Hours.

The Hour Points may be otherwise denoted thus: Having drawn a right Line for the Equator, as before, and a (Turned the Point A for the Hour of 12, cut off two equal Lines A 10, and A 2, then upon the Distance between 10 and 2, make an equilateral Triangle* and you will have B for the Center of the Equator, and the Line A B, will give the Distance from A to 9, and from A to 3. This done, take out the Distance between 9 and 3, and this will give the Distance from B to 8, and from 8 to 7, and from 8 to 1 : and again, from B to 4, and from 4 to 5, and from 4 to 1 1 ; so have you the Hour Points : and if you take out the Distances B 1, B 3, B 5, fc&gt;V. the Points may be found not only for the Half-Hours, but for the Quarters.

In the fame manner are the Hour Lines drawn on a Horizontal Plane, only with this Dif- ference, that A H is the Secant of the Complement of the Latitude, and the Hour Lines of 4&gt; 5&gt; 7&gt; 8, are continued thro' the Center.

USE XII. To draw the Hour Lines upon a Polar Plane, as also on a Meridional Plant*

In a Polar Plane, the Equator may be also the fame with the Horizontal Plane, and the Hour Fig. 5. Points may be denoted as before, in the last Use : but the Hour Lines must be drawn parallel to the Meridian. r

In a Meridional Plane, the Equator will make an Angle with the Horizontal Line, equal to the Complement of the Latitude of the Place; then may you affume the Point A, and t^ere crofs the Equator with a right Line, which will ferve for the Hour Line of 6: then the langent ot 15 Deg. be.ng laid off in the Equator on both Sides from 6, will gl*e the Hour Points ot 5 and 7 ; and the Tangent of 30 Deg. the Hour Points of 8 and 4 ; the Tangent of 45 ai&\ the u H ~ UrPomtsof 3 and 9&gt; the Tangent of 60 Deg. the Hour Points of 2 and 10: and laltly the Tangent of 75 Deg. will give the Hour Points of 1 and 1 1 ; and if right Lines are drawn thro these Hour Points, croffing the Equator at right Angles, these (hall be the Hour Lines required. © 1 & &

USE XIII. to draw the Hour Lines upon a vertical declining Plane.

Fig. 6. First draw A V the Meridian, and A E the Horizontal Line, crofting one another in the

Point A ; then take out A V, the Secant of the Latitude of the Place, which fuppoie 5 1 Deg. 32 Min. and prick it down on the Meridian from A to V. Now because the Plane declines, which suppose 40 Deg. Eastward, you must make an Angle of the Declination upon the Cen- ter A, below the Horizontal Line, on the left Side of the Meridian, because the Plane declines Eastwards ; for if it had declined Westward, the said Angle must have been made on the right Side of the Meridian. This being done, take AH, the fecant Complement of the Latitude, out of the Sector, and prick it down in the Line of Declination from A to H, as was done for the Semi-diameter in the Horizontal Plane : then draw an indefinite right Line thro' the Point A, perpendicular to A H, which will make an Angle, with the Horizontal Line, equal to the Plane's Declination, and will be as the Equator in the Horizontal Plane. Again, take the Hour Points out of the Tangents, as in the last Problem, and prick them down in this Equator on both Sides, from the Hour of 12 at A ; then lay your Ruler, and draw right Lines thro' the Center H, and each of these Hour Points, and you will have all the p]our Lines of an Horizontal Plane, except the Hour of 6", which is drawn thro' H perpendicular to H A. Laftly, you must note the Interferons that these Hour Lines make with AE, the Ho- rizontal Line of the Plane, and then if right Lines are drawn thro' the Center V, and each of these Interferons, they will be the Hour Lines required.

The Hour Points may be pricked down otherwise, thus : Take out the Secant of the Plane's Declination, and prick it down in the Horizontal Line from A to E, and thro' E draw rio-ht Lines parallel to the Meridian, which will cut the former Hour Lines of 3 or 9, in the Point C ; then take out the Semi-diameter A V, and prick it down in those Parallels from C to D, and draw right Lines from A to C, and from V to D ; ■ the Line V D will be the Hour of 6: and if you divide those Lines AC, DC, in the fame manner as D C is divided in the Horizontal Plane, the Hour Points required will be had.

Or you may find the Point D, in the Hour of 6, without knowing either HorC; for hav- ing pricked down A V in the Meridian Line, and A E in the Horizontal Line, and drawn Parallels to the Meridian thro' the Points at E, take the Tangent of the Latitude out of the Sector, and fit it over in the Sines of 90 Deg. and 90 Deg. and the parallel Sine of the Plane's Declination, measured in the fame Tangent Line, will there mew the Complement of the Angle D V A, which the Hour Line of 6 makes with the Meridian : then having the Point D, take out the Semi-diameter V A, and prick it down in those Parallels from DtoC; so (hall you have the Lines DC, AC, to be divided, as before.

Thus have you the Use of the Sector applied in refolving several useful Problems. I might have laid down many more Problems in all the practical Parts of Mathematicks, wherein this Instrument is useful •, but what I, and our Author have said of this Instrument, will, I believe, be fuffkient to fhew Perfons fkilled in the several practical Parts of Mathematicks, the Man- ner of using this Instrument therein.

For the Uses of the Lines of Numbers, Artificial Sines, and Tangents •, as also the Lines of Latitude, Hours, and Inclination of Meridians ; See U S E S of Gunter's Scale.

BOOK III.

Of the Conftru&ion and Use of several different Sorts of Compares, and other Curious Instruments.

CHAP. I.

Of the Conftruttion and Uses of several Sorts &lt;?/* CompafTes.

A V I N G already treated of Common CompafTes, ufually put into Cafes" of Inftru merits, we proceed now to mention some others, fometimes like- wife placed in Cafes of different Bigneffes.

The Conjtruftion of Hair-Compasses. Thefe Compares are so called, because of a Contrivance in the Body of pi atP n them, by means of which an Extent may be taken to a hair's Breadth * 1 We have before hinted, that the Goodnefs of CompafTes confifts chiefly 8 ' A * in having the Motion of their Head fufficiently eafy, and that they open and fliut very equally • anc I thai : they may do fo, the Joints ought to be well Hit, and very equal in Thicknefs '

&lt; 1 he Manner of conftrudhng the Joints, is thus : We first, with a Steel-Saw, flit th- Head in two Places, so that there remains a Middle-Piece, the Thicknefs of a Card ; then we flit whVh r g ^ V he Compasses, in * e Midd1 ^ of the Joint, to receive the Middle-Piece

which was referved for that purpofe ; afterwards the Joints mull be filed and flraightned fo

the M ZlTJf rhe H " J 0, - ned n- CVC 7 Where ' • ™ S bd °S done &gt; we dri11 - -und HofeTorow Lo thronih r? p" ' »" Bignefs proportional to that of the CompafTes, for the Rivet to go through ■ the Rivet ought to be very round, and exaclly fill the aforsaid Hole. When we have nvetted ,t the Head of the CompafTes must be warmed, and a little yellow wS poured between the Joints, for leaning the Fridion of the Legs' in opening andZttmg

^^^S. UPOnthC "^ tW ° tUnied CheCkS ' Winter-Rive^ The : little Screw at the Bottom of the Body of these Hair-Compasses, is to move the Steel

by° : R^TtTha f ?i Wa / dS ' 3t P , ,ea c fUre: 4 P ° int is faftened ^Top ^ofTcompafT: to he other Lei ? n ? ^ S ^ W * ^"S 8 ' The other Sted Po ^ must be foldered for foW^^™^!^ ? 11 ° f Com P affes ar * that ™ fi«d. Now to fit these Points he Cornp affes Z ill J d f °' ? t0 fi - int0 tW0 Slits made in the Bottom of the Body of

No7 ? SMer t rnmm f 7 "7 be . w u c » J oincd , and ^ Solder strongly hold them. ' Silver iSirT? 7 "'I Wlth u Sllver and Thi ^ of Copper? that is, twice more pr which SK fi ft f "?? '* ^ th ° ne Dram of Si,ver ' we ™ ix half a Dram of Cop- EtIteTl££*rf IS dm , a Crucible v-d afterwards, when cold, hammered to I

there is use for ir q m ^ an i m } lnt0 fma11 Pieces that ic ™7 the fooner run, when there is use for it. Solder is hkewife often made with Copper and Zink mixed together, w£

In melting \ of Copper, with ^ of Zink : In foldering, we use Borax finely bruifed, which makes the Solder better run and penetrate t'he Joint?, or any thing else to be foldered.

Of the German Compajfes.

Fig. B. The Legs of these CompafTes are fomething bent, so that, when fhut, the Points only

touch each other. One Point of these CompafTes may be taken off, and others put on y by means of a small square Hole made in the Bottom of the Body, for the Points to go in, and a Screw to keep them fafl when in : but these Points ought very well to fit the aforsaid square Hole, that they may not fhake.

The Points generally put on, are,

Firjiy A Drawing-Pen Point, by means of which, Lines fine or coarfe may be drawn with Ink, by help of a little Screw near the Point of the Drawing-Pen. This Drawing- Pen Point, as well as the other Points to be put on, has a small Joint, almost like the Head of a Pair of CompafTes, by means of which it may be kept perpendicular to the Paper, according as the CompafTes are more or less opened. This Point is reprefented by Fig. 3.

Secondly^ A Pencil-carrying Point, reprefented by Fig. 2, for drawing Lines with a Pencil.

And Laftly y a Dotting- Wheel Point, {Fig. 1.) whose Use is to make dotted Lines. What wc call a Dotting-Wheel, is a little Wheel of Brass, or ether Mttal, about 3 Lines in Diame- ter, round which is made little pointed Teeth. This W T heel is faflened between two little Pieces of Brass by a small Pin, so that it may freely turn round, almost like a Spur ; but the said Teeth must not be too far distant from each other, because then the Dots the Wheel makes, will also be too far distant from each other.

The Conftruction of these CompafTes as to their Joints, &c. being the fame as those before fpoken of, I shall only add, that since the Beauty of CompafTes confifso very much in their being well polifhed ; for this effect, we first rub the CompafTes with Slate-Stone dipped ia Water ; then we rub every part of the CompafTes with a fiat Stick of foft Wood, and a Mix- ture of Emery tempered with Oil, or fine Tripoly. And lastly, we wipe the Compafles clean with a Cloth or Piece of Shamoy.

Of the Spring-Compasses.

Fig. C. Thefe CompafTes are all made of tempered Steel, which are so hard every where, that s

File cannot touch them ; and the Head of these CompafTes is rounded, that by it's Spring it opens and fhuts itfelf: the Circular Screw fix'd to one of the Legs, ferves to open or fhut it, by means of a Nut- Thefe CompafTes are very fit to- take small Lengths, and make small Divisions ; yet they ought to be but fhort, and so tempered, that they may have a good Spring, and not break.

Of the Clock-makers Compajfes.

fig. D. Thefe CompafTes, which are strong and solid, ferve to cut Part-board, Brass, and other

the like things ; the Quadrant crofting it, ferves flrongly to fix it to a proposed Opening, by help of a Screw prefling against it. The Nut at the End of the said Quadrant, is to open or fhut the CompafTes at pleafure, in turning the said Nut, which ought to be so riveted to the Leg of the CompafTes, that it may make the other Leg move forwards or backwards. The Four Points ought to be made of well tempered Steel. That of Fig-. 1. is filed flopewife, like a Graving- Tool, to cut Brass •, that of Fig. 2. is like a pointed Button : and the two other Points are in figure of the fixed Points of common CompafTes; but they must be very strong. in proportion to the CompafTes.

There are different ways of tempering the Points of CompafTes, or other Pieces of Steel : For Example ; the Points of small CompafTes are tempered by means of a Lamp, and a small Brass Pipe: for blowing in the Pipe, caufes a strong lively Flame, in which putting the Points, or other Things, to be hardened, and they will become almost inftantly red hot, and when they are cold, they will be very hard. But the Points of great CompafTes, and other Steel Tools, are tempered with a Charcoal Fire, by blowing thro' the aforsaid Pipe, and heating them to a Cherry Colour, and afterwards putting them into Water, and then they will be rendered very hard.

Of the Three-legged Compajfes.

Jig. E. The Use of these CompafTes is to take three Points at once, and so to form a Triangle, or

to lay down three Pofitions of a Map to be copied at once, fcf c.

The ConftrucYion of these CompafTes doth not much differ from the Conftruction of the others, excepting only that the third Leg has a Motion every way, by means of a turned Ri- vet, riveted by one End to the two other Legs •, and at the other End there must be a turned Cheek, and a round Plate ferving for a Joint to the third Leg: the little Figure 1 fhows how the Rivet is made.

Of the Sea-Chart Compajfes.

Fig. F. The Legs of these CompafTes are crooked, and widened towards the Mead, so that by

preffing the two Legs with your Hand, you may open them. Their Construction fufficiently appears from the Figure, and their Use will be mentioned in the Instruments for Navigation.

Of thefimple Proportional Compajfes.

Thefe Compafles are used in dividing of Lines into 2, 3, 4&gt; or 5 e Q ual Parts, as also to re- Fig G. A ice small Figures to greater ones, and contrariwife, &V. You must: take care in making these Compafles, that the Head be drilled in a right Line with the Legs, and that the Points are not one forwarder than another. Now if you have a mind to make one of these Pair of Compafles to take the [ of a Line, the Distance from the Center of the Joint to the Ends of either of the longeft Legs, must be twice the Length of either of the fhorteft Legs ; and fd in proportion for others. Note, The Compafles of Figure G, are for dividing ot Lines into equal Parts j whence the Distance from the Center marked 5, to the Points 2; 2, is three times the Distance from the said Center* to the Points 3 or 4 : So that if the third Part of the L ine 2, 2, be required, it's whole Length must first be taken between the longeft Legs of the Compafles, which remaining thus opened, the Distance between the Points of the fhorteft Legs, will be \ of the given Line.

Of the Mcveabk-headed Proportional Compajfes. The Use of these proportional Compafles, is to divide a given Line into any Number of Fig. H. equal Parts, as alio to divide the Circumference of a Circle, so that a regular Polygon may be infcribed therein.

Thefe Compafles confift of two equal Legs, each of which is fufnifhed with tWo Steel Points and are hollowed in, for a Curfor to flip up and down •, in the middle of which Curfor, there i's a Screw ferving to join the Legs, and to faften them in divers Places by means of a Nut : but the Legs must be hollowed in exactly in the Middle of their Breadth, that so the Center of the Curfor may be in a right Line with the Points of the Legs, and the Curfor flidei very exactly along the Legs : as also the Head-Screw must exactly fill the Hole in the Curfor, so that nothing may fhake when the Legs are fattened* with the Nut.

Figure 1, reprefents the Screw •, Figure 2, the Nut j Figure 3, half the Curfor, which must be iomed by a like half. You may fee by that little Figure, that there is a Piece in the Middle kit exactly to fit the Hollow of the Leg of the Compafles : the fhadowed Spaces of the said Figure, are to contain the two Sides of the Leg j underftand the fame of the other half of the Curfor.

Figure 1, is one of the Legs feparate, upon which are theDiviftons for equal Parts: for upon one Side of one of the Legs, are the Divisions for dividing of Lines into equal Parts j and upon one Side of the other Leg, are denoted the Numbers fhewing how to inferibe any regular Polygon in a proposed Circle.

Now to make the Divisions for dividing Lines into equal Parts, take a well divided Scale, or a Sector, which is better, because it is almost a univerfal Scale : then take the exact Length of one of the Legs of your proportional Compafles between your Compafles, and having opened the Sector, so that the Distance between 120 and 120 of the Line of Lines be equal to that Ertent, take the Distance from 40 to 40, which lay off upOn the Leg of your Compafles, and at the End thereof, fet the Number 2, which will ferve to divide any given Line into two equal Parts: The Sector ftill continuing opened to the fame Angle, take the Distance from 30 to 30, on the Line of equal Parts, and lay off upon the aforsaid Leg of the Compafles, where fct down the Number 3, and that will give the Division for taking 4 of any given Line. Again •, take 24 equal Parts, as before, from the Line of Lines, lay them off upon the Leg, and that will give the Division for dividing a Line into 4 equal Parts.

Moreover, take 20 equal Parts, and that will give you the Division upon the Leg of the Compafles, ferving to divide a Line into 5 equal Parts: the fame Opening of the Sector will ftiil ferve to divide a Line into 7, 9, and 11 equal Parts. But to avoid Fractions, the afore- said Opening must be changed, to make the Division of 6, 8, 10, and 12, upon the Leg : but before the said Opening of the Sector be altered, take the Distance from 15 to 15, which will give the Divisions for dividing a Line into 7 equal Parts.

Again i Take 12, and that will give the Division for dividing a Line into 9 equal Parts; and lastly, the Distance from 10 to 10, will give the Division for dividing any Line into 11 equal Parts.

But to make the Division for dividing a Line into 6 equal Parts, take between your Com- pafles the Length of one of the Legs of the proportional Compafles, and open the Sector fo, that the Distance between 140 and 140, on each Line of equal Parts, be equal to the afore- said Length. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 20 to 20, on each Line ot equal Parts, and lay it off upon the Leg of the Compafles, and that will give the Di- vifion for dividing a Line into 6 equal Parts.

Again ; having taken the Length of the Leg of your Compafles, open the Sector, so that the Distance from 180 to 180, of each Line of equal Parts be equal thereto. Then take the Extent from 20 to 20, and that laid off upon the Leg of the Compafles, will give the Division for dividing a Line into 8 equal Parts.

Moreover, open the Sector fo, that the Distance from 1 10 to no, be equal to the Length of the Leg ot your Compafles. The Sector remaining thus opened, the Distance from 10 to 10, wili give the Division for dividing a Line into ten equal Parts-

Laftly, the Sector being opened, so that the Length of the Leg of your Compafles be equal to the Distance from 130 to 130 - r and then the Distance from 10 to 10 will give the Division for dividing a Line into twelve equal Parts.

The Use of this Line is eafy : for suppose a right Line is to be divided into three equal Parts ; firfb pufh the Curfor, so that the Middle of the Screw may be juft upon the Figure 3 ; and having firmly fixed it upon that Point, take the Length of the proposed Line between the two lon^eft Parts of the Legs j then the Distance between the two (horteft Parts of the Legs will be 7 of the given Line. Proceed thus for dividing a given Line into other equal Parts.

Now to make the Divisions for regular Polygons, divide the Leg of your Compafles into two equal Parts ; and having opened the Sector, let the Distance from 6 to 6, on the two Lines of Polygons, be equal to one of those Parts. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 3 to 3 tor a Trigion, and lay it off from the End of the Leg of your pro- portional Compafles, where mark 3. Again,, take the Distance from 4 to 4 for a Square, up- on the Line of Polygons, and that will give the Division for a Square. Moreover, take the Distance from 5 to s&gt; on tne Lines of Polygons, and lay off upon the Leg of your Com- pafles, which will give the Division for a Pentagon ; proceed thus for the Heptagon, and the other Polygons, to the Dodecagon. It is needlefs to make the Division for a Hexagon, be- eaufe the Semidiameter of any Circle will divide it's Circumference into fix equal Parts.

The Use of this Line for the Infcription of Polygons is very eafy : for if, for Example, a Pentagon is to be infcribed in a given Circle, pufh the Curfor fo, that the Middle of the Screw may be against the Number 5 for a Pentagon ; then with the fhorteft Parts of the Legs, take the Semidiameter of the Circle ; and the Legs remaining thus opened, the Distance between the Points of the longed Parts of the Legs, will be the Side of a Pentagon infcribed in the given Circle.

Again, suppose a Heptagon is to be infcribed in a Circle j fix the Screw against the Num- ber 7 ; then take the Semidiameter of the Circle between the longeft Parts of the Legs of your Compafles, and the Distance between the fhorteft Parts of the Legs will be the Side of a. Heptagon infcribed in the said Circle.

Of the Beam-Compass.

Pig. K. This Compass confifts of a very even square Branch of Brass or Steel, from 1 to 3 or 4

Feet in Length. There are two square Brass Boxes or Curfors exactly fitted to the said Branch, upon each of which may be fcrewed on Steel, Pencil, or Drawing- Pen Points, ac- cording as you have use for them. One of the Curfors is made to Aide along the Branch, and may be made fafl to it by means of a Screw at the Top thereof, which prefles against: a little Spring ; the other Curfor is fixed very near one End of the Branch, where there 15 a Nut so faftened to it, that by turning it about the Screw, at the End of the Branch, the said Curfor may be moved backwarde or forwards at pleafure.

Thefe Compafles ferve to take great Lengths, as also exactly to draw the Circumferences ©f great Circles, and exactly divide them.

Of the ElliptichCompasses.

Fig. L. This Instrument, whose Use is to draw Ellipfes of any kinds, is made of a crofs Branch of

Brass, very ftrait and equal, about a Foot long, on which are fitted three Boxes, or Curfors, to Aide upon it. To one of the Curfors there may be fcrewed on a Steel-Point, or else one to draw with Ink, and fometirnes a Porte-Craion. At the Bottom of the two other Boxes are joined two Aiding Dove-Tails (as the little Figure 1 fhews), these Aiding Dove-Tails are adjufted in two Dove-Tail Grooves, made in the Branches of the Crofs. The aforsaid two Aiding Dove-Tails, which are affixed to the Bottoms of the Boxes by two round Rivets, and so have a Motion every way, by turning about the long Branch, move backwards and for- wards along the Crofs •, that is, when the long Branch has gone half way about, one of the Aiding Dove-Tails will have moved the whole Length of one of the Branches of the Crofs ; and then, when the long Branch is got quite round, the fame Dove-Tail will go back the whole Length of the Branch: underftand the fame of the other Aiding Dove-Tail.

Note, The Distance between the two Aiding Dove-Tails, is the Distance between the two Foci of theEllipfis j for by changing that Distance, the Ellipfis will more or less fwell.

Underneath the Ends of the Branches of the Crofs, there is placed four Steel-Points, to keep it faft upon the Paper. The Use of this Compass is eafy ; for by turning round the long Branch, the Ink, or Pencil-Point, will draw an Oval, or Ellipfis, required. It's Figure is enough to fliew the Conftruction and Use thereof.

Of Cylindrick and Spberick Compasses.

Fig. M. Figure M is a Pair of Compafles used in taking the Thickneffes of certain Bodies, as Cannon, Pipes, and the like things, which cannot be well done with Compafles of but two Points. Thefe Compafles are made of two Pieces of Brass, or other Metal, having two cir- cular Points, and two flat ones, a little bent at the Ends. When you use them, one of the flat-Points must be put into the Cannon, and the other without ; then the two opposite Points will ftiew the Thicknefs of the Cannon.

Note, The Head of these CompafTes ought to be well drilled in the Center ; that is, if a Line be' drawn from one Point to the opposite one, the said Line must exactly pass thro' the Center-, and when the CompafTes are fhut, all the Points ought to touch one another. " The' Figure N is a Pair of Spherick CompafTes, which differs in nothing from the Con- Fl 'g N * ftruclion of Common CompafTes, except only that the Legs are rounded, to take the Diame- ters of round Bodies, as Bullets, Globes, &V.

Laltly, the Figure O is another Cylindrical Pair of CompafTes, whole j-^egs are equal : The Figure is enough to fhew their ConftrucYion and Use.

Additions to CHAP. I*

Of the Turn-up Compafles , and the Proportional Compafles, with ths

SeSior Lines upu?t them.

Of the Turn-up Compafjes.

T*~ HE Body of these CompafTes, is much like the Body of common CompafTes, nigh the Fig. i. Bottom of which, and on the outward Faces, are adjufted two Steel Points, one of them having a Drawing-Pen Point at the End, and the otlur a Porte-Craion at it's End, fo that they may turn round. Nigh the Middle of the outward Faces, are two little Steel Spring Catches, to hinder the Points giving way when using. The Benefit of this Contrivance, is, that when you want to use a Drawing-Pen Point, or a Pencil, you have no more to do, but turn the Drawing- Fen Point, or the Porte-Craion, until the Steel Points come to the Catch : whereas, in a common Pair of CompafTes, you have the trouble of taking off a Steel Point, in order to put either of the afortfaid Points in it's place. The Figure of these CompafTes is fufficient to fhow their Conflruction and Use.

Of the Proportional Compasses, with the Seftor Lines upon them.

Thefe CompafTes are made of two equal Pieces of Brass or Silver, of any Length, the Breadth Fig. 2. and Thicknefs of which must be proportionable. Along the greateft Part of their Length are two equal Dove-tail Slits made, in each of which go two Sliding DoVe-tails of the fame Length, each having a Hole drilled in the Middle, thro' which pafTes a Rivet, with a turned Cheek fixed at one End (which turned Cheek is faftened to one of the Sliding-Dove-Tails), and a Nut at the other. There is another equal turned Cheek, faftened to the other Dove- tail ; so that the two Sliding Dove-tails, together with the two turned Cheeks and Rivet, make a Curfor to flip up and down the Slits, and likewise ferve as a moveable Joint for the Branches of the CompafTes to turn about.

At the Ends of the aforsaid Pieces of Brass, or Silver, are fixed four equal Steel-Points, the Lengths of each of which must be such, that when the Curfor is flid as far as it can go, to either of the Ends of the Slits, the Center of the Rivet may be exactly \ Parts of the Di- ftance from one Point to the other.

At a small Distance from the four Ends of the two Sliding Dove-tails, are drawn acrofs four Lines, or Marks •, and when the Center of the Rivet is in the Middle between the Points, the Divisions of the Lines on the Broad-Faces, begin from those Lines, and end at them : But the Divisions on the Side-Faces, begin and end against the Center of the Rivet, when ic is in the Middle between the Points

The Lines on the first broad Face of these CompafTes, are, \ft, the Line of Lines, divided into 100 unequal Parts -, every 10th of which are numbered, at the Top of which is writ Lines. idly, A Line of Chords to 60 Degrees, at the Top of which is writ Chords. On the other broad Face, are, 17?, A Line of Sines to 90 Degrees, at the Top of which is writ Sines, idly, A Line of Tangents to 45 Degrees, at the Top of which is writ Tangents.

On the first Side- Face, are the Tangents from 45 Deg. to 71 Deg. 34 Min. to which is writ Tang, and on the second, are the Secants from o Deg. to 70 Deg. 30 Min. to which is writ Sec.

ConftruElion of the Line of Lines on these Compasses.

Draw the Lines AD, C B, of the fame Length that you defign to have the Branches of Fig. & the CompafTes, crofting each other in the Middle G j with one Foot of your CompafTes in A, and the Distance A D, defcribe the Arc ED; and with the fame Distance in the Point B, defcribe the Arc C E: thro' the Points E, G, draw the right Line E M, which will bifeft the Line drawn from C to D, in the Point F; also bifett FD in H, and raife the Perpendicular H R. Now if from the Point R, a right Line be drawn to A, it will cut the Line E M in the Point k ; and if with one Foot of your Compaftes in A, and the Distance Ak, you de- 1'cribe an Arc cutting the Side AD in the Point 50; the said Point 50, on the Side AD, will be the Division for 50 and 50 of the Line of Lines, if the Center of the Curfor was to be did ro the Divisions, when the Compass is using. But because the Lines drawn acrofs near the Ends of the Sliding Dove-tail, are to be flipped to the Divisions, when the Compaftes are to be used, the Division for 50 must be as far beyond the Point 50, as the aforsaid Line on the Sliding Dove-tail, is distant from the Center of the Curfor •, which Distance suppose to be G Q^, or G L it's Equal. Underftand the fame for all other Divisions, which are found in the man- ner that I am now going to (hew.

Divide D H into 50 equal Parts, and from every of which raife Perpendiculars to cut the Arc E D (I have only drawn every 10). Now if from the Point A, to all the Points wherein the Perpendiculars cut the Arc ED, right Lines be drawn, cutting the Line E M ; and if the Distances of these Sections from the Point A, are laid off from the fame Point on the Line A D, the Divisions from o to 50, for the Line of Lines, will be had ; and likewise from 50 to 100, which are at the fame Distance from the Center G •, in obferving to place each of them, found out as diredled, so much further from the Center G, as the Line GQJs distant from it.

The Divisions for the Line of Lines being found, as before directed, they must each of them be transferred to the Face of your Compaftes, and be numbered as per Figure.

Conjlrutlion of the Line of Chords ', Sines, Tangents, and Secants.

ig. 4. Having taken half of the Line of Lines, and divided the Spaces from o to 10, 10 to 20,

20 to 30, 30 to 40, and 40 to 50, into 100 Parts, by means of Diagonals; that half so di- vided, will ferve as a Scale whereby the Tables of Natural Sines, Tangents, and Secants, and the Divisions of all the other Lines on these Compaftes may be eafily made.

Now having Aid the Center of the Curfor to the Middle of the Compaftes, the Beginning and Ending of the Line of Chords must be (as in all the other Lines drawn upon these Com- paftes, two broad Faces) where the Line drawn acrofs the Sliding Dove-tail cuts the Sides of the Slit : then to find where the Division of any Number of Degrees, or half Degrees, fup- pofe 10, must be, look in the Table of Natural Sines for the Sine of 5 Degrees, which is half 10, and you will find it 871.557 ; which doubled, will give the Chord of 10 Degrees, viz. 1743. 1 14: but because the Radius to the Table of Natural Sines, Tangents, and Secants, is 10000, and from the aforsaid Semi-Line of Lines made into a Diagonal Scale, can be taken but 5.00 Parts ; therefore reject the last Figure to the right-hand, together with the Decimals, and you will have 174 for the Chord of 10 Degrees, when the Radius is but 1000, or the Length of the Line of Lines. Now take 174 Parts from the Diagonal Scale, and lay them off from o, on the Parallels drawn to contain the Divisions of the Line of Chords, and you will have the Division for 10 Degrees. Again, to find the Division for 20 Degrees, look for the Natural Sine of 10 Degrees, and it will be found 1736.482 •, which doubled, will give the Chord of 20 Degrees, viz. 3472.964, and rejecting the last Figure to the right-hand, and the Decimals, you will have 347, which being taken from your Diagonal Scale, and laid off from o o on the Parallels, you will have the Division for the Chord of 20 Degrees. In this manner proceed for finding the Divisions for the Chords of any Number of Degrees, or half Degrees. But note, when you come to the Chord of 29 Degrees, you are got to the furtheft Division from the Center ; because, from the Table of Sines, the Chord of 29 Deg. is half Radius (or at least near enough half for this Use), or 500, and confequently the Length of your whole Scale : therefore you must, for the Divisions of the Chords of any Number of De- grees above 29, lay off the Parts above 500, taken on the Diagonal Scale, from the Division of 29 Degrees, back again towards the Center, on the other Side the Slit, to 60. As for Example •, to find the Division for the Chord of 40 Degrees ; the Chord is 684, from which 500 being fubftracted, you must take the Remainder 184 from your Diagonal Scale, and lay it offjowards the Center, on the Parallels drawn on the other Side of the Slit, from a Point over-against the Division for the Chord of 29 Degrees ; and so for any other.

The Lines of Sines, or Tangents, on the other broad Face of these Compaftes, are made in the fame manner as the Line of Chords is: As, for Example, to make the Division for the Sine of any Number of Degrees, suppose 10 ; you will find from the Table of Natural Sines, that the Sine of 10 Degrees is 173 ; whence lay off 173 Parts, taken on the Diagonal Scale, from the Beginning of the Lines drawn to contain the Divisions, and you will have the Point for the Sine of 10 Degrees. Again ; to find the Division for the Sine of 25 Degrees, you will find from the Table, that 422 is the Sine of 25 Degrees ; therefore take on your Scale 422 Parts, and lay them off from o, and you will have the Division for the Sine of 25 Degrees. Thus proceed for the Divisions of any other Number of Degrees, until you come to 30, whose Sine is equal to Half-Radius, and from 30 back again to 90, in obferving the Directions afore- given about the Chords, when they return towards the Center.

The Divisions for the Tangent of any Number of Degrees, suppose 10, are likewise thus found; for the Tangent of 10 Degrees, by the Table, is 176; wherefore taking 176 Parts from your Scale, and laying them off from o o on the Parallels drawn to contain the Divisions, the Division for the Tangent of 10 Degrees will be had. Again ; to find the Division for the Tangent of 25 Degrees -, by the Table of Tangents, the Tangent of 25 Degrees will be found a66 , whence taking 466 Parts from your Scale, and laying them off from o o, you will have the Division for the Tangent of 25 Degrees. Thus proceed for the Divisions of the Tangents of any other Number of Degrees, until you come to the Division of the Tangent of 26 Deg. [yjj n . which is half the Radius ; and from 26 Deg. 30 Min. back again to 45 Deg. whole Tano-tnt is equal to Radius, in obferving the Directions afore-given about the Line ol Chords, when they return.

The Conltruction of the Tangents to a second and third Radius, on the side Face of these Compafles, is thus: Let the Beginning of the second Radius, which is at the Tangent of 45 l&gt;&lt;/rees, be in the Middle between the Points of the Compafles; because when the Compasses is ufnuT, a little Notch in the Side of the turned Cheek, which is directly against the Center of the'Curfor, is (lid to the Divisions: then to make the Divisions for the Tangents of the Decrees, and every 15 Minutes, from the Tangent of 45, to the Tangent of 56 Degrees, and about 20 Minutes, which is half a second Radius, you must look for the refpective Tangents in the Table of Natural Tangents •, and having caft away the last Figure to the right-hand, and the Decimals (which always do), fubftract 1000 from each of them, because that is equal to one of our Radius's, and the Remainders take from your Sole, and lay off from 45 -, fo shall you have the Divisions to the Tangent of 56 Deg. and about 20 Min. Then again, to have the Divisions from 56 Deg. 20 Min. to 63 Deg. and 27 Min. the Tangent of which is equal to 2000, or two of our Radius's, you must fubftract 1500, which is 2 and a half of our Radius's, from every of the refpective Tangents, found and ordered as before directed -, and then take each of the Remainders from the Scale, and lay them off from 56 Deg. 20 Min. on the Top, and you will have the Divisions of the Tangents of the Degrees, and every 15 Min. from -56 Dtg. 20 Min. to 62 Deg. 27 Min. which will fall against 45 Deo-. n the Side of the other Branch. Again ; to find the Divisions of the Tangents ol the Degrees, and every 15 Minutes, from 63 Deg. 27 Min- to 68 Deg. 12 Min. which makes two Radius's and a half, or 2500, you must fubftract 2000 from each of the Tangents, found and ordered as alorefaid, and the Remainders must be taken off your Scale, and laid off from 63 Deg. 27 Min. and you will have the Divisions for the Tangents of the Degrees, and every 15 Min. from 63 Deg. 27 Min. to 68 Deg. 12 Min. Lajlly, To have the Divisions from 68 Deg. 12 Min. to 71 Deg. 34 Min. which ends at 45 Deg. and makes up the third Radius, or 3000 : you mult fubftract 2500 from each of the Tangents found in the Table, and ordered as before directed -, and take off the Remainders from your Scale, which laid off upwards from 68 Deg. 12 Min. will give the Divisions for the Tangents of the Degrees, and every 15 Minutes, be- tween 68 Deg. 12 Min. and 71 Deg. 34 Min.

The Divisions for the Secants, on the other narrow Face of the Compafles, which run from o Degrees, in the Middle between the two Points of the Compassts, to 70 Degrees, 32 Minutes, that is, which are the Secants to a second and third Radius (like as the Tangents last mentioned) are made exactly in the fame manner, from the Table of Natural Secants, as those Tangents to a second and third Radius are made.

USE e/ these Proportional Compares.

U S E I. To divide a given right Line into any Number of equal Parts, less than 100.

DWide 100 by the Number of equal Parts the Line is to be divided into, and flip the Cur- for fo, that the Line drawn, upon the Aiding Dove-Tail, may be against the Quotient on the Line of Lines : then taking the whole Extent of the Line between the two Points of the Com- pafles, that are furtheft distant from the Center of the Curfor, and afterwards applying one of the two opposite Points to the Beginning or End of the given Line, and the other opposite Point will cut off from it one of the equal Parts that the Line is to be divided into.

As, for Example •, To divide the Line A B into two equal Parts : 100, divided by 2, gives Fig. J. 50 for the Quotient i therefore flip the Line on the Dove-Tail to the Division 50 on the Line of Lines, and taking the whole Extent of the Line AB between the Points furtheft from the Center ■, then one of the opposite Points fet in A or B, and the other will fall on the Point D, which will divide the Line A B in two equal Parts.

Again -, to divide a right Line into three equal Parts, divide 100 by 3, and the Quotient will be 33.3 •, therefore flip the Line of the Dove-Tail to the Division 33, and for the three Tenths conceive the Division between 33 and 34 to be divided into 10 equal Parts, and rea- sonably eftimate 3 of them. Proceed as before, and you will have a third Part of the said Line, and therefore it may eafily be divided into 3 equal Parts. Moreover, to divide a given Line into 50 equal Parts, divide 100 by 50, and the Quotient will be 2 ; therefore flip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Division 2 on the Line of Lines. Proceed as at first, and you will have a 50th Part of the Line proposed ; whence it will be eafy to divide it into 50 equal Parts.

Note, If each of the Subdivifions, on the Line of Lines, be supposed to be divided into 100 equal Parts j then a Line may, by means of the Line of Lines on these Compafles, be divided into any Number of equal Parts less than 1000. As, for Example ; to divide a Line into 500 equal Parts : Divide 1000 by 500, and the Quotient will be 2 j therefore flip the Line, on the Dove-Tail, to 2 Tenths of one of the Subdivifions of 100, and proceed, as at first diredted, and you will have the 500th Part of the Line given, which afterwards may eafily be divided into 500 equal Parts. Again •, To divide a Line into 200 equal Parts : divide 1000 by 200, and the Quotient will be 50 •, therefore flip the Line, on the Dove- Tail, to 5 of the Subdivifions of 100, on the Line of Lines, which will now reprefent 50 •, proceed as at first, and you will have the 200th Part of the Line given : therefore it will be eafy to di- vide it into 200 equal Parts. Moreover, to divide a given Line into 150 equal Parts, divide 1000 by 150, and the Quotient will be 6.6 ; wherefore reasonably eftimate 6 of the 10 equal Parts that the first of the Subdivifions of 100 is supposed to be divided into, and flip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the 6th ; then proceeding as at first, and the Line may be di- vided into 150 equal Parts. If a Line be so long, that it cannot be taken between the Points of your Compasscs, you must take the half, third, or fourth Part, isc. and proceed with that as before directed •, then one of the Parts found being doubled, trebled, &c. will be the cor- refpondent Part of the whole Line.

U S E II. A right Line being given, and supposed to be divided into 100 equal Parts :

to take any Number of those Parts.

Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove- Tail, to the Number of Parts to be taken, as io-, then the Extent of the whole Line being taken between the Points of the CompafTes, furtheft di- ftant from the Curfor, if one of the opposite Points be fet in either Extreme of the given Line, the other will cut off the Part required.

USE III. The Radius being given ; to find the Chord of any Arc under 60 Degrees.

Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Degrees fought on the Line of Chords •, then take the Radius between the Points of the CompafTes, furtheft distant from the Center of the Curfor, and the Extent, between the two opposite Points, will be the Chord fought, if the given Number of Degrees be greater than 29, whose Chord is nearly Half-Radius-, but if the Number of Degrees be less than ig, then the Distance of the two opposite Points, taken from Radius, will be the Chord of the Degrees required.

If the Chord of a Number of Degrees under 60 is given, and the Radius to it be required; you must fiip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Degrees given on the Line of Chords ; and taking the Length of the given Chord between the two Points of your Com- pafTes, that are nigheft the Curfor, the Extent of the two other opposite Points will be the Radius required. Fig. 6. Example, for the first Part of this Use : Suppose the Length of the Radius be the Line

A B, and the Chord of 35 Degrees be required •, Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to 35 Degrees on the Line of Chords •, take the whole Extent of the Line A B between the Points of the CompafTes, furtheft distant from the Curfor ; and placing one of the opposite Points in the Point A, the other Point will give the Extent A D for the Chord of 35 Degrees. Again ; To find the Chord of 9 Degrees : Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to 9 De- grees on the Line of Chords ; then take the Extent of the Radius, which suppose A B, be- tween the two Points of the CompafTes, furtheft distant from the Center ; and placing one of the opposite Points in the Point A, the other will fall on the Point C, and the Difference be- tween A B and A C, viz. C B, will be the Chord of 9 Degrees.

USE IV. The Radius being given, suppose the Line A B ; to find the Sine of any Num- ber of Degrees, as 50.

Fig. 7 . Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to 50 Degrees on the Line of Sines ; then if the

Extent A B be taken between the two Points of the CompafTes, furtheft from the Curfor, and one of the opposite Points be fet in the Point A, the other will give A C for the Sine of 50 Degrees ; but if the Sine fought be lefTer than the Sine of 30 Degrees, which is equal to Half-Radius, the Difference, between the Extents of the opposite Points, will be the Sine of the Angle required.

USE V. The Radius being given ; to find the Tangent of any Number of Degrees, not

above 7 1 .

If the Tangent of the Degrees, under 26 and 30 Minutes, whose Tangent is equal to Half- Radius, be fought : You must Aip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Degrees pro- pofed on the Line of Tangents ; and then take the Radius between the Points of the Com- pafTes, furtheft distant from the Curfor, and the Difference between the opposite Points will be the Tangent of the Number of Degrees proposed.

If the Tangent of any Number of Degrees above 26 and 30 Minutes, and under 45, be fought •, then you must Aip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Number of Degrees given on the Tangent-Line, and take the Radius between the Points of the CompafTes furtheft from the Curfor •, then the Distance, between the two opposite Points, will be the Tangenc of the Degrees required.

If the Tangent required be greater than 45 Degrees, but less than 56 Degrees, and about eo Minutes \ you must Aip the Notch, on the Side of the turned Cheek, to the Degrees of the Tangents upon the Side of the CompaHes, and take the Radius, between the Points of the Compasses, furtheft distant frorh theCurlor j the Difference between the opposite Points, added to Radius,' will be the Tangent of the Degrees fought.

If the Tangent required be greater than that of 56 Degrees, 20 Minutes, but less than 63 Degrees, 27 Minutes, you must flip the Notch to the Degrees proposed, and take the Ra- dius as' before, between the Points of the Companies •, then the Extent, between the two op- tionee Points, added to Radius, will be the Tangent required.

If the Tangent required be greater than 63 Degrees, 27 Minutes, but less than 68 De- grees i you must flip the Notch, on the Side of the turned Cheek, to the Degrees proposed, and take the Radius between the Points of the Compasses, as before 5 then the Difference be- tween the opposite Points, added to twice Radius, will be the Tangent of the Degrees pro-

Laitly, If the Tangent be greater than 68 Degrees, but less than 71, you must add the Distance between the opposite Points of the CompalTes, to two Radius's, and the Sum will be the Tangent of the Degrees fought.

The Secant of any Number of Degrees, under 70, by having Radius given, in obferving the aforsaid Directions about the Tangents, may be eafily found*

CHAP. II.

Of the ConftruElion of divers Mathematical Instruments.

Of the Sliding Porte-Craion, or Pencil-Holder.

THIS Instrument is commonly about four or five Inches long, the Outfide of which is Plate id filed into eight Faces, and the Infide perfectly round, in which a Porte-Craion is put, Fig. A. which may be flid up and down by means of a Spring and Button, of which we shall fpeak hereafter. The CompalTes of the Figure B is made to fcrew into one End of this Instrument.

There are commonly drawn, upon the Faces of this Porte-Craion, the Sector-Lines, whose manner of drawing is the fame, as those on the Sector -, and their Use is the fame as the Use of those on the Sector, excepting only that they are not so general. For Example •, If you have a mind to make an Angle of 40 Degrees upon a given Line ; take the Extent of 60 De- grees of the Line of Chords, and therewith defcribe an Arc upon the given Line: then take the Extent of 40 Degrees, and lay off upon that Arc, and from it's Center draw a Line, which will make an Angle of 40 Degrees with the given Line.

Note, There are also round Instruments of this kind, whose Outsides are divided into In- ches, and each Inch into Lines.

This is ai. other Porte-Craion made of Brass, round within, and commonly so without, hav- pig. C, ing the Porte-Craion of Figure D made to flip up and down in it. In the Ends of the said Porte- raion are put Pencils, which are made faft by two Rings •, and in the Middle is placed a well-hammered Brass or Steel Spring, having a Female Screw made in it at 1, in order to receive the Male Screw at the End of the Button E, which goes thro' a Slit made in the Body of the Instrument. The Figure, and what I have said, is enough to fhew the Nature of this Porte-Craion.

Of the Fountain-Pen*

This Instrument is compofed of different Pieces of Brass, Silver, &c. and when the Pieces Fig. F. F G 1 J are put together, they are about five Inches long, and it's Diameter is about three Lines. The middle Piece F carries the Pen, which ought to be well flit, and cut, and fcrewed into the Infide of a littler Pipe, which is foldered to another Pipe of the fame Bignefs, as the Lid G •, in which Lid is foldered a Male Screw, for fcrewing on the Cover : as likewise for ltopping a little Hole at the Place 1, and so hindering the Ink from running through it. At the other End of the Piece F, there is a little Pipe, on the Outfide of which the Top-Covef H may be fcrewed on. In this Top-Cover there goes a Porte-Craion, that is to fcrew into the last mentioned little Pipe, and so flop the End of the Pipe at which the Ink is poured in, by means of a Funnel.

When the aforementioned Pen is to be used, the Cover G must be taken off, and the Pen a little fhaken, in order to make the Ink run freely. Note, If the Porte-Craion does not ftop the Mouth of the Piece F, the Air, by it's Prefiure, will caufe the Ink all to run out at once. Note, also, That some of these Pens have Seals foldered at their Ends.

Of Pincers for holding Papers together \

This little Instrument is made of two well-hammered thin Pieces of Brass, fattened together Fig. I. at top, and having a Brass Spring between them, and a Ferril, that Aides up and down, in order to draw them together. Ttie whole Piece is about two Inches long, and it's Figure is enough to fhew the Conftruction and Use thereof.

Of the Pentograpb, or Parallelogram.

Pig k This Instrument, called a Pentograpb, as ferving to copy any manner of Designs, is com- peted or four Brass, or very hard Wooden Rulers, very equal in Breadth and Thicknefs ; two of them being from 15 to 18 Inches in Length, and the other two but half of their Length, and their Thicknefs is ufually 2 or 3 Lines, and Breadth 5 or 6.

The Exactnefs of this Instrument very much depends upon having the Holes made at the Ends, and in the Middle of the longelt Rulers, at an equal Distance from the Holes at the Ends of the fhortelt Rulers •, for this Reason, That being put together, they may always make a Parallelogram : and when the Instrument is to be used, there are fix small Pieces of Brass put on it.

The Piece 1 is a little turned Brass Pillar, at one End of which is a Screw and Nut, ferving to join and fatten the two long Rulers together 5 and at the other is a little Knob for the In- ftrument to Hide upon. The Piece 2 is a turned-headed Rivet, with a Screw and Nut at the End ; two of which there mult be for joining the two Ends of the two fhort Rulers to the Middle of the long ones, at the Places 2, 2. The Piece 3 is a Brass Pillar, one End of it be- ino- hollowed into a Screw, having a Nut to fit it ; and at the other End is a Worm to fcrew into the Table, when the Instrument is to be used. This Piece holds the two Ends of the fhort Rulers together, at Fig. 3. Fig. 4. is a Porte-Craion, or Pen, which may be fcrewed into the Pillar 4, which is fixed on at the Place 4, to the End of the great Ruler. Laftly, Fig. 5. is a Brass Point, fomething blunt, fcrewed into a Pillar like one- of the former ones, which is fcrewed on to the End of the other long Ruler. This Instrument being put together, and disposed, as per Figure, the next thing will be to fhew it's Use.

Now when a Design, of the fame Bignefs as the Original, is to be copied, the Instrument nmft be disposed, as in Figure K ; that is, you mull: fcrew the Worm into the Table at the Place 3, and lay the Paper under the Pencil 4, and the Design under the Point 5 ; then there is no more to do but move the Point 5 over every part of the Design 5, and at the fame time the Pencil, at Figure 4, will mark the said Design upon your Paper. But if the Design is to be reduced, or made less by half, the Worm must be placed at one F,nd of the long Ruler, the Paper and the Pencil in the Middle, and then you must make the Brass Point pass over all the Tracls of the Design, and the Pencil at the fame time will alio have defcribed all those Tracts j but they will be of but half the Length of the Tracts of the Design : for this reason ; btcaufe the Pencil, placed in the manner aforsaid, moves but half the Length, in the fame time, as the Brass Point does. And, for the contrary Reason, if a Design is to be aug- mented, for Example, twice the Original, the Brass Point and the Design must be placed in the Middle, at Figure 3, the Pencil and Paper at the End of one of the long Rulers, and the Worm at the End of the other long Ruler •, by this means a Design twice the Original may be drawri.

But to augment or diminish Designs in other Proportions, there are drilled Holes at equal Distances upon each Ruler, viz. all along the fhort ones, and half-way the great ones, in or- der to place the Pieces carrying the Brass-Point, the Pencil, and the Worm in a right Line in them •, that is, if the Piece carrying the Brass-Point be put into the third Hole, the two other Pieces must be likewise each put into the third Hole.

Note, If the Point and the Design be placed at any one of the Holes of one of these great Rulers, and the Pencil with the Paper under one of the Floles of the fhort Ruler, which forms the Angle, and joins to the Middle of the said long Ruler, that then the Copy will be less than half the Original : But if the Pencil and Paper be placed under one of the Holes of that fhort Ruler, which is parallel to the long Ruler, then the Copy will be greater than half the Original. In a word, all these different Proportions will be eafily found by Expe-

Fig. M. This little Instrument, whose Use is to find the Weight of very fine and round Pearls, is made of five thin Pieces, or Leaves, of Brass, or other Metal, about two Inches long, and fix or seven Lines broad. The said Leaves have several round Holes drilled in them of diffe- rent Diameters •, the Holes in the first Leaf ferve for weighing Pearls from half a Grain to 7 Grains ; those in the second Leaf are for Pearls from 8 Grains, which is 2 Carats, to 5 Carats •, those in the third for Pearls weighing from 2 ; Carats to 5 ' Carats •, the fourth for Pearls weighing from 6 Carats to 8 ; and the fifth for Pearls weighing from 6 f Carats to 8 ^.

Now the Diameters of the greateft and least Holes of each Leaf being found, by weighing of Pearls in nice fine Scales, the Diameters of all the other Holes from thence, by proportion, may be found.

The Hole, fhewing the Weight of a Pearl of one Grain, is 2 ' Lines in Diameter ; that fhewing the Weight of a Pearl of 2 Carats, is 2 ; Lines-, that fhewing the Weight of a Pearl of 5 Carats, is 4 Lines •, that fhewing 2 t Carats, is 2 - v ; that of 5 -*- Carats, is 4 [- Lines ; that of 6 Carats, is 4 ' Lines-, that of 8 Carats, is 4 \ Lines; and, Laftly, the Dia- meter of that I lole for Pearls weighing 8 I Carats, is 4 : Lines.

The Leaves are fattened together at one End by a Rivet, about which they are moveable, and included between two thin Pieces of Brass, ferving as a Cafe for them.

Jewellers likewise use little Scales, and very small Weights, which they call Carats, to weioh Diamonds, and other precious Stones, as also Pearls that be not round. A Carat is 4 Grams, and is divided into 4, 4, -*-, and 4 of a Carat : the word Carat is also used for the De- grees of Perfection of Gold ; as a Carat of fine Gold is the 24th part of an Ounce of pure Gold, which is so foft, that it cannot be worked ; for which Reason the Goldfmiths of Pa- ris use Gold of 22 Carats, that is, 22 Parts of fine Gold, and two Parts of Brass ; by which Mixture it is rendered harder and fitter to work.

Of the Fixed Square.

This Instrument is called a Fixed Square, because it's Sides do not open or fhut ; all it's F »g- L. Exattnefs confifts in being very ftrait, and that both the inward and outward Faces of the two Sides be at right Angles ; which that they may be, it is necefiary for them to be pa- rallel to each other.

The Figure N is another Square, which opens or fhuts. Thefe Squares principal Uses are to know whether any Line or Plane be at right Angles to another.

Of the Foot-Level.

This Instrument is compofed of two Branches of Brass, or other Matter, about half an Fig. O, Inch broad, and opens and fhuts like a Two-foot Rule ; half-way the Infide of both these Branches are hollowed in, to receive a kind of Tongue, or thin Piece of Brass (which is fattened to one of the Branches) that so the two Branches may be fhut clofe together. The Use of this Tongue, is such, that when the End of it is placed in the Branch it is not fattened to, where there is a Pin that holds it, the two Branches of the Level will be fixed at right Angles, as per Figure. There is likewise a thin square Piece of Brass adjufted to the Head of this Instrument, that so it may ferve for a Square, and at the Bottom of the Angle of the said Piece of Brass is a little Hole made, in which is fattened a Silken Line, with a Plummet at the End thereof; which falling upon a perpendicular Line, drawn on the Middle of the Tongue, fhews whether any thing the Instrument is applied to be level or not. Note, The inward Angles of the Branches are cut away, that so the Instrument may better ftand upon a Plane to be levelled. Note also, That this Instrument ferves for a Level, a Square, and a Foot-Rule.

Of the Paris Foot-Rule, and the Comparifon of it's Length with that of other Countries.

The Conftrudtion of the Body of this Instrument does not differ from that of the Sector be- Fig. P. Fore fpoken of; and when the Paris Foot is only put thereon, each Leg is but about five Lines in Breadth ; but when the Foot of other Countries, compared with the Paris Foot, is put thereon, it is made broader. I shall here lay down the Comparifon between the Foot of molt chief Towns in Europe, compared with that of Paris.

A Point is ~, of an ordinary Grain of Barley ; a Line is 12 Points, or theThicknefs of one Grain of Barley ; an Inch is 12 Lines, and a Foot is 12 Inches. The Foot Royal of Pa~ ris is 12 of the aforsaid Inches, but fometimes it is divided into 720, or 1440 equal Parts, for better expretting it's Relations to the Meafures of other Countries. The Foot of Lyons and Grenoble is fomething bigger than that of Paris ; for it contains 12 Inches, 7 Lines. The Foot of Dijon is letter, and contains but 1 1 Inches, 7 Lines •, that of Befanfon 1 1 Inches, 5 Lines i that of Macon 12 Inches, 4 Lines; and the Foot of Rouen is equal to thatofPtfnV.

Some other Measures compared with the Paris Foot.

A Roman Palme is 8 Inches, 2 Lines •, that of Genoa is 9 Inches, 1 Line ; that of Naples is 9 Inches, 9 Lines-, and that of Portugal, is 8 Inches, 2 Lines.

A Pan, which is a Meafure used in many Places of Italy, is 8 or 9 Inches.

The Ell of Paris, is 3 Feet 8 Inches ; that of Provence, Montpelier, and Avignon, is i- of that of Paris, and the I'll of Flanders and Germany, is , 7 , of that o: \ Paris.

The Fathom of Milan, used by Mercers, is 1 Foot, 7 Inches, 4 Lines ; and that of Linen-Drapers, is 2 Foot, 1 1 Inches.

A Fathom of Florence is 1 Foot, 9 Inches, 6 Lines.

The Ras of Piedmont and Lucca is 22 Inches.

The Yard of Seville is 30 Inches, 1 1 Lines.

The Varre of Madrid and Portugal is 3 Foot, 9 Lines.

The Varre of Spain in general is 5 Foot, 5 Inches, 6 Lines.

The Cane of Touloufe is of the fame Length.

The Cane of Rome is 6 Feet, 1 1 Inches, 7 Lines.

The Cane of Naples is 6 Feet, 1 o Inches, 2 Lines.

The Pic of Conjlantinople is 2 Foot, 2 Inches, 2 Lines.

The Geufe of India and Per/ia is 2 Foot, 10 Inches, 1 1 Lines.

Conjlruclion of Parallel Rules.

Fig R. Thefe Instruments are commonly made of Brass, or hard Wood, from 6 to 18 Inches in

Length, and about two Lines in Thicknefs : the two parallel Pieces ought to be very ftraight every way, and parallel, that is, very equal in Breadth from one End to the other ; for this is the chief thing upon which the Exactnefs of these Instruments depends.

The two parallel Pieces of this Instrument are joined together by two Brass Blades, from about 2 to 3 4 Inches long, and 6 Lines broad, filed and fafhioned, as per Figure, near the Ends of which are round Holes very equally drilled thro' them, which ought to be done by laying them one upon the other. Then the parallel Pieces muff, be divided Length-wife into two equal Parts, and afterwards one of the Halves of each into 3 equal Parts, and at the first of these Parts from the Middle, a Flole muil be made in each parallel Piece, in the Middle of their Breadth, in which must be placed two turned-headed Rivets, for joining one End of each Blade to the said parallel Piece. Likcwifed, near, and equally distant from the two op- pofite Ends of each Piece, mufl two more Holes be made, in which must be put two more Rivets, for joining the other two Ends of the two Blades, to the parallel Pieces. The Pieces being thus joined, if you move them backwards and forwards, to the right-hand and the left, and the inward Edges of the said Pieces do exactly meet each other, it is a fign the Rule is well made.

Pj K o The Figure Q^, is another kind of parallel Rule, the two parallel Pieces of which, are joined together by two others fomething fhorter, which are joined to each other in the Middle, and make a kind of Crofs, which opening or fhutting, caufe the two parallel Pieces to recede parallelly from, or accede to each other. In the Middle of each parallel Piece of both these Instruments, is fixed a Brass Button, for more eafier managing them.

The principal Use ot these Instruments, is to draw parallel Lines, by opening or fhutting the parallel Pieces, and are of excellent Use in Architecture and Fortification, wherein a great Number of parallel Lines are to be drawn.

Conjlruclion of the Pedometer or Waywifer.

Fig. S. This Instrument is about two Inches in Diameter, commonly about 7 Lines in Thicknefs, and hath all it's Parts joined together a Cafe, almost like that of a Watch. The Plate T, is placed in the Bottom of the Cafe, upon which are fattened several Pieces, as they appear per Figure. The Piece 1, is a little Steel Catch with it's two Springs ; this Catch is held by a round Tenon going into a Hole in the said Plate, so that by pulling the Piece F, which is fattened to one End of the Catch, the said Catch turns round the Steel Star 2, having 6 Points, and carrying a Pinion of Six Teeth of the fame Height as the two Wheels, of which we are going to fpeak. The Spring 4, is for hindering the Star from going back •, and that marked 5, is to lift up the End of the Catch, when it hath made the Star move one Point forwards.

The Plate V is like the Plate T, only it hath upon it two equal Wheels placed on each other-, the upper Wheel hath 100 Teeth, and the under one 101, which are both put in Mo- tion by the Pinion upon the Star •, so that when the upper Wheel hath gone round once, and run 100 equal Parts, with it's Hand upon the greater Dial-Plate S •, the Wheel which hath 101 Teeth, wants one of going round, and makes the leffer Hand move the !- Part of the Circumference of the leffer Dial- Plate the contrary way, whence the greater Hand mufl go round 100 times, before the little Hand hath gone round once the contrary way ; and con- fequeiitly, the Piece F must be pulled 10000 times, before the little Hand will go round once : there are 3 Tenons fixed to the under Plate, by means of which, the upper Plate is fattened to it with little Pins.

The whole Machine is inclofed in it's Cafe, covered with a GJafs, and having on one Side of it two Rings, thro' which a String is put for hanging the Instrument to any thing; and at the other Side'of the Cafe, is an Opening left for the Piece F to come out thro', which Piece receives a String fattened to one's Garter.

The Use of this Instrument is such, that being hung to a Perfon's Belt, at each Tenfion of the Knee, that is, every time he ftcps forwards, the String pulls the Piece F, and this the Catch, which caufes the greater Hand to move one Division forwards. When any Perfon hath a mind to know how many Paces he hath moved, he must look upon the Dial-Plate, and that will inform him. Note, A Pace is nearly 2 Foot, and a Perfon in walking may so ac- cuilom himfelf, as to take his Steps of that Length ; but when Ground is not level, Paces are not equal, for in defcending they are longer, and in afcending fhorter, which must be regard- ed, and corrected by Experience.

There are also these kinds of Instruments made, and fitted to Wheels of known Circum- ferences •, for Example, a Fathom round : so that every time the Wheel comes to a certain point, where there is a Tenon which pulls the Piece F, the Catch caufes the larger Hand to move'one Division forwards ; and by this means you may know how many Fathom you have

gone.

Pedometers are likewise adjufted behind Coaches, so that when one of the great Wheels of a Coach comes to a certain Point, it caufes the Catch to move the Hand one Division forwards, so that in knowing the Circumference of the said Wheel, the Length the Coach hath moved may be known.

Not.;, ' The leffer Dial-Plate must be carried round by the upper Wheel of ioo Teeth, or 4 t lie it will not at any time be eafy to tell, how many Paces you have gone by the said lefTef 4 Plate, but must ftay 'till the Hand of the greater Plate hath made one Revolution.'

The Confiruciion of a Machine for cutting and dividing the Wheels, and Pinions of Clocks, or Watches.

The Machine A, is for cutting and dividing the Wheels and Pinions of Clocks and Watches, and is very commodious, and extremely fhortens the Time of doing them.

The Plate A is made of Brass, very even, about 8 Inches Diameter, and one Line in Thick- Fig. i, nefs, having several Concentrick Circles drawn upon it, whose Peripheries are divided into several even or uneven Numbers of equal Parts, the greater of which are always more distant from the Center.

As for Example •, to divide the Periphery of one of the Circles into 120 equal Parts, you must first divide the said Periphery into 2 equal Parts, each of which will be 60, which again fubdivide by 2, and each Part will be 30 ; which again divided by 2, and each Part will be 15, which being divided by 3, produces 5. Laftly, dividing each of these last Parts by 5, the whole Periphery will be found divided in 120 equal Parts.

But if one of the Circles is to be divided into an odd Number of equal Parts, for Example, into 81, you must first divide it into 3 equal Parts, each of which will be 27, which being divided by ?, will produce 9 ; each of which being divided by 3, will produce 3 ; each of which being again divided by 3, will produce 1 : wherefore the Periphery of the Circle will be divided into 81 equal Parts.

The like may be done for any other Number, in taking the most proper aliquot Parts there- of, to make a proposed Division.

The Circles of the Plate being divided, there ought to be made, at every Division, small round Holes, with a fine Steel Point.

Now when a Clock Wheel is to be fimply divided by means of these Concentrick Circles, in order to cut it with the Hand, the said Wheel must be placed upon the Arbre in the Center of the Plate, and having fixed it faft, you must divide it with a fine Steel Ruler, one End of it being placed in the Center : then by moving the said Ruler round from Division to Division, upon the Circumference of one of the Concentrick Circles, anfwerable to the Number of Teeth the Wheel is to have, the Wheel may be divided •, which being done, the Teeth must be made with a very fine File, obferving to leave as much Space between them, as you file away.

But when this Machine is used to very expeditioufly cut Clock Wheels, it is compofed in the following Manner.

Fig. 1. reprefents the Plan of the whole Machine put together, and fit for Use.

The Piece 1, is a Steel Saw- Wheel, the Breadth of the Interval between the Teeth of a Wheel to be cut by it: this Saw- Wheel is placed upon a square Arbre, as likewise a little Pully, to turn it between two Steel Points. The Place 2, is the Porte-Touret, having a Motion at the two Ends thereof, like the Head of a Pair of Compares, that so the file Wheel may be raifed, or lowered, at pleafure.

At the Place 1, of Figure 2, is the Saw-Wheel put upon it's Arbre, as likewise the Pully between the two Steel Points, that are fattened by 2 headed-Screws 7, 7. The two Ends of the Porte-Touret, are reprefented by 2, 2. The Screws 9, 9, are for fixing the Part of the Machine carrying the Saw- Wheel, upon the Square Iron Ruler 3, which is put thro' a square Hole, between the Screws 9, 9. There are two of the said Iron Rulers, that is, there is one above the circular Brass Plate, and another underneath it, both of them being of a convenient Bignefs, and are so fattened together at the Ends by strong Screws, that there is room enough left between them for the circular Brass Plate, and also for the Touret, or Frame, and a kind of Spring, which carries the Point (of which we (hall fpeak prefently), to Aide freely along the lquare Iron Ruler 3.

Figure 3, reprefents the Side-Draught of the whole Machine put together, whereof the Piece 1, is the Touret, or Frame, placed near the Wheel to be cut, which is reprefented by Number 6 : this Wheel is placed in the Center of the Brass Plate, and is faflened by the Arbre Screw. The Piece 3, is the Iron Ruler along which the Touret of Figure 2 Aides, as also the Spring carrying the Point 4 : and Number 5 is a Piece of Iron, by means of which the Machine may be fafbened in a Vice, when it is to be used.

Figure 4, is a very fine and well -tempered Steel-Point, fcrewed into the End of a kind of Spring, having a circular Motion, that thereby the said Steel-Point may be put into any of the Holes of the Circumferences of either of the concentrick Circles upon the Plate. There is likewise another Piece joined to the Spring, is order to keep, by means of a Screw, the Point upon any proposed Division of the Circumference of any of the concentrick Circles, while one Tooth of a Wheel is fawing.

Laftly, Figure 5, is the Arbre placed in the Center of the Machine, and upon which is put the Wheels to be cut, which are firmly fixed thereon, by means of Screws at the Top and Bottom. There are commonly several Arbres of different BignefTes, in proportion to the Holes in the Centers of Wheels to be cut.

The Use of this Machine is eafy, for you have no more to do but fix a Wheel to be cut into Teeth, in the Center (at Number 6), and then fit the Spring (reprefented by Fig. 4.) fo that it's Point may exactly fall upon the Divisions of that concentrick Circle, which is divid- ed into the fame Number of equal Parts you defign your Wheel to have Teeth ; and then you mull move the Touret, with it's Saw-Wheel, to cut the Wheel, by means of a Male- Screw (one End of which goes into a round Hole 8, in the Bottom of the Touret, and is there faflened with a Pin), and a Female Screw to fit it, at the End of the Iron Ruler, denoted by Number 5 •, so that by turning the said Male-Screw, the Touret may be moved back- wards and forwards at pleafure. The Saw-Wheel being thus placed, you must turn it 4 or 5 times about, by means of a Bow, whose String is put about the Pully, and then one Side of a Tooth will be cut; and having moved the Steel-Point 4, to the next Division in the Cir- cumference of that concentrick Circle upon the Plate, whose Divisions are the fame in Num- ber you defign your Wheel to have Teeth, give 4 or 5 Strokes with the Bow, and the other Side of the 1 ooth will be cut : and in this manner may all the Teeth be cut ; Pinions are also thus cut.

Note, There are Saw- Wheels of divers ThicknefTes, conformable to the Space there ought to be left between the Teeth of different Wheels.

The ConftruEiion of Armour for Load-Stones, as also how to cut the said Stones, in order to

arm them.

The Figures 6, 7, reprefent two armed Load-Stones -, the firfl in the Form of a Parallele- pipedon, and the second in the Form of a Sphere : But before we fhew the bed way of arm- ing them, we will enumerate some of the Properties and Virtues of Load- Stones.

The Load-Stone is a very hard and heavy Stone, found in Iron Mines, and is almofl the Colour of Iron, for which reason it is reckoned among the Metallick Kind : it hath two won- derful Properties, one whereof is to attract Iron, and the other to direct itfelf towards the Poles of the World.

The Load-Stone attracts Iron, and reciprocally Iron attracts the Load-Stone, notwithstand- ing any other Body's Interpofition between them. This Stone likewise communicates to Iron a Faculty of attracting Iron : For Example, an Iron Ring that hath been touched with a good Load-Stone, will lift up another Iron Ring by only touching it, and this second a third, &c. but the firfl Ring must have a greater Degree of Attraction, than the second, and the second than the third, &V.

The Blade of a Knife that hath been touched with a Load-Stone, will likewise lift up Needles, and small Pieces of Iron : also several Sewing-Needles being laid upon a Table in a Row, and a Load-Stone being brought near the firfl, by which receiving the Magnetick Virtue, the said firfl Needle will attract the second, the second the third, &c. 'till they all come together.

That Iron reciprocally attracts the Load-Stone, when it can move freely, may be thus fhewn : For if you put a Load-Stone into a hollow Piece of Cork, and fet it floating upon the Surface of a Bafon of Water, and bring a Piece of Iron at a convenient Distance to it, the Piece of Cork, together with the Stone, will accede to the Iron.

That Property of the Load-Stone which is always to refpect the Poles of the World, may be fhewn by the following Experiment: For having put a Load-Stone into a hollow Piece of Cork, and fet them both a floating upon the Surface of (till Water (there being no Iron, or other Obflacle near), the Load-Stone will always so difpofe itfelf, that one certain Point thereof will regard the North, and the opposite Point the South.

But you mud note, that the Load-Stone doth not exactly refpect the North, it having at different Times, and in different Places of the Earth's Superficies, different Declinations, or Variations therefrom, and at this time at Pan's, varies i2Deg. i5Min. Westward : so that the South Pole of the Load-Stone varies above 12 Degrees from that of the World, and it's Oppofite so likewise. The Poles of a Load-Stone, are those two Places thereof, that refpect the two Ma^netick Poles of the World ; and the principal Axis, is a right Line drawn from one Pole to°the other, about which, the greatefl Force of the Load-Stone manifests itfelf, "nd at the two Poles is greatefl. Spherical Load-Stones have also ficted Equators, and Me- ridians, i3c. from whence they are called Magnetick Spheres.

Now in order to find the Poles of a Load-Stone, you must cut a Hole in a Card of the Figure of the Stone, in which the Stone must be put, so that it's principal Axis may be found in the Plane of the Card. This being done, Iron or Steel Filings must be ftrewed upon it : after which ftrike the Card foftly with a little Stick, so that by putting the Filings in Motion, the Magnetick Matter may let them take a Circuit conformable to the way which that Matter takes in moving from a North Pore to another South one, and you will perceive the Filings ranged in the Figure of several Semi-Circumferences, whole opposite Ends ar^. ^e Poles of the Load-Stone.

The Poles of a Load-Stone may otherwise be found, in plunging it into Iron or Steel Fi- lings, or into very little Bits of Steel Wire ; for then they will make different Configurations round the Stone, some of them lying flat on it, others half t)ent •, and finally, others quite upright on it : and those Places of the Stone where the little Bits of Steel are perpendicular to it, are the Poles ; and where they lie along, is the Equator.

Havino- thus found the Poles of a Load-Stone ; which is the North or South Pole, may be known in laying the Stone in a hollow Piece. of Cork, fwimming on Water, or by fufpending it with a Thread, so that it's Axis be parallel to the Horizon ; for then that Pole of the Stone turning towards the North Pole of the World, will be the South Pole of the Stone, and the opposite Point the North Pole.

The Poles of a Load-Stone may likewise be found by means of a Compass; for bringing a touched Needle to the Stone, the End that was touched, will immediately turn towarc that Pole of the Stone agreeing therewith, and the other End of the Neeale will likewise turn to- wards the other Pole of the Stone.

The Poles of the Stone being found, the next thing will be to cut, and give it a regular Figure, in taking away the Superfluities either with a Saw, and Powder of Emery, or else with a Knife- Grinder's Grind-ftone, preferving it's Axis as long as poffible, and giving a like Figure to it's Poles.

Now to make a great many Experiments, it is neceffary to give to a Load-Stone the most regular Figure poflible, which is determined by the Likenefs it hath to that of the irregular Mafs it is compofed of: the Cube, the Parallelepipedon, the Oval, and the Round are to be preferred, on account of having the principal Axis of the Stone as long as may be. If a Load-Stone is to be made in Form of a Sphere, it will not be difficult to find it's Poles and Axis ; you need only figure it with Powder of Emery in a round Iron Concave, and after- wards finifh it with find Sand, in a round Brass Concave.

A Load-Stone in Figure of a Sphere, is very fit for many Experiments, and it's Poles may be found in manner aforsaid : but it is neceffary, before any pains be taken in cutting and figuring of a Load-Stone, to be affured of it's Goodnefs, in observing whether it strongly at- tracts Filings, or little Bits of Steel ; and whether there be not other Matter pafiing thro' it's Pores, which hinders the Magnetical Matter from circulating and passing from one Pole to the other.

The Goodnefs of a Load-Stone confifb in two effential Things j which are, first, That it be homogeneous, having a great Number of Pores filled with Magnetick Matter, which paf- fing thro' them form about the Stone, as it were, a very extenfive Whirlwind. In the second place, it's Figure very much contributes to it's Force (as we have already said), for it is cer- tain, that of all Load-Stones of a like Goodnefs, that which hath the beft Poles, it's Axis longeft, and whose Poles meet exactly in the Extremes, will be most vigorous.

Two Load-Stones placed in two hollow Pieces of Cork, which are both fet floating upon the Surface of the Water, having their Poles of contrary Denominations tur :ed to each other, will accede to each other •, but if the Poles of the fame Denomination be turned towards each other, then the Load-Stones will mutually recede from one another.

If a Load-Stone be cut into two Pieces, parallel to it's Axis, the Sides of the Pieces that were together before theDivision, will mutually recede from each other.

But if a Load-Stone be cut into two Pieces, according to it's Equator, the Sides of the Pieces that were together before they were cut, will be found to have Poles of a contrary De- nomination, and will accede to each other.

A strong Load-Stone touching a weak one, will attract it with it's Pole of the fame Deno- mination, &c.

The Defcription of the Armour ; or Capping for Load-ftones.

Fig. 6. The Armour for a Load-ftone, cut into the Form of a right-angled Parallelepipedon, is compofed of two square Pieces of very fmooth Iron or Steel ; but tempered Steel is better than Iron, because it's Pores are clofer, and there are a greater Number of them. Care must be taken, that the Armour well cncompafles, and exactly touches the Poles of the Load-ftone, and that the Armour is in Thicknefs proportionable to the Goodnefs of the Stone : for if strong Armour be put upon a weak Stone, it will produce no Effect, because the magnetick Matter will not have force enough to pass thro' it-, and, on the contrary, if the Armour of a strong Stone be too thin, it will not contain all the magnetick Matter it ought, and confe- quently the Stone will not produce so great an Effect, as when the Armour is thicker.

Now, to fit the Armour exactly, you must file it thinner by Degrees •, and when you find the Effect of the Stone to be augmented as much as poflible, the Armour will be in it's juft Proportion, and will have it's convenient Thicknefs ; after which it must be fmoothed within Side, and polifhed without.

The Heads of the Armour (whereon is writ North and South) must be thicker than the other Parts, and cover about 4 of the Length of the Axis.

The Breadth and Length of the Armour, beft fitting a Stone, may also be found by filing it by little and little ; bur, above all, Care must be taken that the two Heads are equal in Thicknefs, and that their Eafes very exactly meet in the fame Plane. Number 5 is a Brass or Silver Girdle fitted about the Stone, ferving to faften and hold the Armour, by means of two Screws 1, 1 ; and at 6 and 6 are two Screws lastening a round Brass Plate, carrying the Pen- dant 4, and it's Ring, to the Top of the Armour, fig. 7. The Armour of a fpherical Load-ftone is compofed of two Steel Shells, faftened to the

Piece 8 by two Joints 6, 6 ; of a Girdle 5, 5 •, of a Pendant and Ring 4 •, and of a Piece (or Porte-Poid) 2, to hold the Hook 3 Great Care must be taken that the Shells very exactly join the Superficies of the Stone, and that they well encompass the Poles of the Stone, and cover the greateft part of the Convexity thereof. The convenient Breadth and Thicknefs of this Armour may be found by Trials, as before- mentioned.

It is very wonderful, that two little Pieces of Steel, compofing the Armour of a Load-ftone, fhould give it such a Property, that a good Stone, alter it is armed, will attract above 1 50 times more than before it was armed.

There are indifferent good Stones, which, unarmed, weigh about three Ounces, and will life up but half an Ounce of Iron •, but being armed, will lift up more than seven Pounds.

To preferve a Load-ftone, you must keep it in a dry Place among little Bits of Steel-Wire ; for Filings, which are always full of Duft, make it rufty.

We fometimes fufpend Load-ftones, so that having the liberty to move, they may conform themfelves to the Poles of the World ; and if, in this Situation, the Piece carrying the Hook, or Porte-Poid, be put on, and the Weight the Stone commonly carries be hung on, and from time to time there be hung to it some small Weight more, you will find that, when the Stone has continued fufpended some Days, that it will lift up a much greater Weight than it did be- fore it was hung up.

Several common Experiments made with the Load-Jlone.

The first and usefulleft Experiment made with the Load-ftone, is that of touching the Nee- dles of Sea-CompafTes •, for rightly doing of which, you must draw the Needle foftly over one of the Poles of the Load-ftone, from it's Middle to it's End, and then it will receive it's Virtue. But, Note, that that End of the Needle, which hath been touched with one of the Poles of a Load-ftone, will turn towards the opposite Part of the World, to that which that Pole regards ; therefore it the End of a Needle is to turn towards the North, it must be touched with that Pole of the Stone refpecting the South. Note, The longer Needles are, the less will they vibrate.

This admirable Direction of the Load-ftone and Touched Needle hath not been known in Europe much above two hundred Years, by means of which, Navigation hath been almost in- finitely advanced. But there is one Inconveniency, which is, that a Touched Needle doth not exactly refpect the Poles of the World, but declines or varies therefrom towards the East or West, at different Times, and in different Places, varioufly. In the Year 1610, it varied at Paris 8 Degrees North-Easterly ; in 1658, it had no Variation j and in the Year 1716, it varied about i2Deg. ^Min. Westward.

Moreover, the Needle hath also an Inclination as well as a Declination ; that is, the Nee- dle of a Sea-Compass being in Equilibrio upon it's Pivot, will, when touched, lofe that Equi- librium, and the End that turns North, on this side the Equator, will drip or incline towards the Earth, as if it was heavier on that Side ; for which reason the North Side of a Needle must be made lighter, before the Needle be touched, than the South Side, and going towards the Poles, this Inclination grows greater ; but in going towards the Equator, it grows Itffer : so that under the Equator, the Inclination will be nothing ; and in palling the Line, the other End of the Needle, refpecting the South, will begin to incline ; so that Pilots are obliged to ftick as much Wax to the End of the Needle, as will make it in Equilibrio. Ncte,

The greater Force that Load-ftones, which touch Needles, have, the more will the Needles

There are Needles purpofely made to obferve this Inclination, which at Paris is about 70 De°rees.

It a long thin Piece of Steel be drawn over one of the Poles of an armed Load-done (in the fame manner as was said before of the Needles), this Piece of Steel will in an inftant acquire the magnetick Virtue, and will not lofe it but by degrees after several Months, unlefs it be put in the Fire. Note, A Piece of Steel, touched by a good Stone, will lift up 14 Ounces.

The two Ends of a Steel Blade thus touched will become North and South Poles ; that End whose Contact ends on the South Pole of the Stone, being the North, and the other the South Pole : for if this Piece of Steel be made light enough to fwim, one End thereof will turn to the North, and the other to the South.

A«uin ; that End of the Steel Blade where the Contact ended, will attract much stronger than 'the other End •, and if the said Blade be once drawn over the Stone the contrary way, it will quite lofe it's Virtue, and attract no more. Understand the fame of the Needle of a Com- pass, the Blade of a Knife, &c. two touched Steel Blades will avoid each other, and approach like two Load-ftones.

A Piece of Steel, in a hollow Piece of Cork fwimming on the Water, may be any ways moved, by bringing the Pole of a Load-ftone towards it, or another touched Piece of Steel.

A fine Sewing-Needle, fufpended by a Thread, will fliew what is meant by Sympathy and Antipathy ; for this Needle will be repelled by one Pole of a Load-ftone, and attracted by the other.

A Needle may be kept upright, without it's touching a Load-ftone ; so that there may be put between it and the Stone, a Piece of Silver, or other Matter, provided it be not Iron.

If, about a Load-ftone, fufpended by a String, be circularly placed fevetal little touched Needles of a Compass, upon their Pivots, and the Load-ftone be moved any how, you will likewise fee all the Needles move in a pleafant manner j and when the Stone eeafes moving* the Needles will also ceafe.

What we have already fpoken about ftrewihg of Filings about a Load-ftone, may be said also of ftrewing them about a Piece of touched Steel.

If Filings be ftrewed upon a Piece of Paftcboard, and a Load-ftone be moved under it, thd Filings will erect themfelves, and then lie along on that Side from whence the Stone earner

If, inftead of Filings, you lay upon a Piece of Pafteboard several Bits of the Ends of bro- ken Needles •, by bringing one Pole of a Load-ftone towards them, they will erect themfelves upon one of their Ends j and by bringing the other Pole, they will fall, and rife upon their other Ends.

It is eafy to feparate a black Powder mixed with white Sand, and propofing it to a Perfon* not knowing the Secret, he will think it impoffible ; for if Iron Filings be mixed with fine Sand, they may be feparated from it by a Load-ftone, or Piece of touched Steel: for either of them being p..t into the Mixture, at divers times, you may get all the Filings from among the Sand.

A Load-ftone will lift up a Whirlegig in Motion, whose Axis is Steel ; and if it be fome- thing heavy, it will turn a longer Time in the Air than upon a Table, where the Friction foon ftops it's Motion ; and if the Stone be a good one, this Whirlegig may lift up another, and both of them will turn contrary 'Ways. Another diverting Experiment may yet be made, by putting little Steel Fifties, or Swans, into a flat Bafon of Water ; for by moving a good Load-ftone under the Bafon, you will fee them prettily fwimming about j and moving the Stone different ways, they will likewise have different Motions ; if the Stone be turned round, the Fifties will also turn round ; if the Pole of the Stone be turned towards them, they will plunge themfelves, as it were, to join themfelves to the Stone. You may likewise put little Steel Soldiers into the Bafon, which may be made to approach to, or recede from, each other in form of a Battel ; and by bringing the Equator of the Stone towards them, they will fall down.

It is pleafant enough to fee a Sewing-Needle threaded, or a little Arrow, fattened by a Hair to the Arc of a Cupid*s Bow, remain fufpended in the Air eight or ten Lines distant from a good Load-ftone.

There are several other Experiments made with the Load-ftone, but mentioning thefn here would take up too much time*

The ConftriitTion of an Artificial Magnet.

This Instrument, invented by Mr Joblot, is compofed of several very ftrait Steel Blades Fig.*, laid upon one another ; and to make it paflably good, there ought to be at least 20 of them (according to the force of the Magnet to be made), each about 10 Inches long, 1 Inch broad, and half a Line in Thicknefs. It is ufelefs to make them thicker* because the magnetick Vir- tue will not penetrate further into the Steel Blades.

Now these Blades being first touched with a good Stone* are afterwards laid one upon ano- ther, having their Poles, of the fame Denomination, turned the fame way, forming a Paral- Wepipedon ; then they are prelTed together with four Brass Stirrups, and as many little Wed- g e5 3&gt; 3&gt; 3&gt; 3&gt; °f tne ^ ame Metal, and encompafied with Iron Armour of a proper Length, Breadth, and Thicknefs. This Armour is held by a Brass Girdle, and fattened with the Screws 2, 2. At the Top is placed a Brass Plate, to which h fattened the Pendant 4, and it's Ring •, and at the Bottom is the Port-Poids 5. But, Note, That the Base of the Porte-Poids must make the perfected Contact poftible with the Heads a, b, of the Armour. When arti- ficial Magnets are well made, and touched with good Stonc-s, they will have as much Virtue in them as good natural ones, and may be used for the fame Experiments.

The Construction df the Spring Steel-yard.

f'g 9. This Machine, which is portable, and ferves to weigh any thing from one Pound to about

forty, is compofed of a Brass Tube or Pipe, open at the Ends, about 4 or 5 Inches long, and 7 or 8 Lines broad, one End whereof is marked 3 ; the Rest being open for fhewing the Infide, which is a Spring (2) of tempered Steel-Wire, made like a Worm. Number 6. is a little Feril fcrewed upon the Top of the square Brass Rod 1, which the Spring croffes. Up- on this Rod are the Divisions of Pounds, and Parts of a Pound, which are made in fucceflively hanging on the Hook (4.) r, 2, 3, tec. Pounds : for the Spring being fattened by a Screw to the Bottom of the square Rod, the greater the Weight is, that is hung on the Hook, the more will the Spring be contracted •, and confequently a greater part of the Rod will come out of the Tube, thro' the square Hole C : therefore if you have a mind to mark the Division for any Number of Pounds upon the Rod, suppose 10, hang 10 Pounds upon the Hook, and where the Edge of the square Hole C, at the Top of the Tube, cuts the Rod, make a Mark upon the Rod for 10 Pounds, and so for any pther.

The Use of this Instrument is very eafy ; for having fcrewed the Feril 6 on the Top of the Rod, if you hold the Instrument in your Hand by the Hook 5, and hang any thing to be weighed upon the Hook 4 ; then where the Edge C of the square Hole cuts the Rod, will be the Weight of the thing required.

The chief Goodnefs of this Instrument confifts in having a well- tempered Spring ; so that it may fold according to the Force of the Weight it is to carry, and alio in having a Bignefa proportionable.

The Conjlruffion of the Beam Steelyard.

frig, to, This Instrument, which is a kind of Steel-yard, or Balance of Mr Cajini's Invention,

confifts of a Rod fufpended by a Beam, in it's Point of Equilibrium 5, which divides the said Rod into two Arms (like the two Arms of a common Balance) each of which are lengthwife divided into equal Parts, beginning from the Point of Sufpenfion or Equilibrium.

The Use of this Balance is to find both the Weight and Price of Goods at the fame time. If you use it for weighing any thing, the Counter-Weight 4 of one Pound, or one Ounce, must be hung to one of the Arms (according as Goods are to be weighed by Pounds or Ounces), so that it may Aide along the Arm, like as in Roman Balances ; and on the other Arm must be hung on a filken Line, for fuftaining things to be weighed. Then to weigh any thing, you must place the filken Line, to which the thing is hung, upon the first Divi- fion of the Arm, nigheft the Point of Equilibrium ♦, and moving the Counter-weight upon the other Arm, 'till it makes an Equilibrium, the Point whereon it falls will fhow the Weight fought. M

To know the Weight of Goods, according to any Price ; for Example, at seven Pence an Ounce or Pound ; place the Line, fuftaining the Goods, upon the Division 7 of the Arm •, then placing the Line, carrying the Counter- weight upon the other Arm, so that it be in Equi- libria, and the Number of Divisions, from the Point of Sufpenfion to the Line fuftaining the Counter-weight, will give the Value of the Goods weighed.

But for Goods that cannot be weighed, unlefs in a Scale, take a Scale of a known Weight, and having hung it upon a Hook to the Arm, proceed as before, and fubftract the Weight of the Scale.

A Paris Pound is 16 Ounces, and is divided into 2 Marks, each of which is 8 Ounces ; an Ounce is fubdivided into 8 Drams, a Dram into 72 Grains, and a Grain, which is nighly the Weight of a Grain of Wheat, is the least Weight used.

A Quintal weighs 100 Pounds.

The Paris Pound compared with those of other Countries.

The Pound of Avignon, Lyons, Montpelier, and Thoulouje is 13 Ounces.

The Pound of Marfeilles and Rochelle is 19 Ounces.

The Pound of Rouen, Befanfon, Strafburgh, and Amjierdam is 16 Ounces, like that of Paris.

The Pound of Milan, Naples, and Venice, is 9 Ounces.

The Pound of Meffina and Genoa is 9 4 Ounces.

The Pound ok Florence, Leghorne, Pifa, SarragoJJa and Valence is 10 Ounces.

The Pound of Turin and Modena is 10 ' Ounces.

The Pound of London, Antwerp and Flanders is 14 Ounces.

The Pound of Bafil, Berne, Franckfort and Nuremburgh is ^Ounces and 14 Grains.

That ef Geneva is 17 Ounces.

Construction of an Instrument for raifing of Weights.

The Instrument of Fig. n. confifts of two Sheaves, each of which carries eight Pullies, Fig. u. hollowed in to receive a Rope, which is fattened at one End to the upper Sheave •, and after havin" put it round all the Pullies, the other End of it must be joined to the Power repre- fcnted°by the Hand. Four of the Pullies are carried upon one Axel-Tree, and four upon ano- ther as well in the upper Sheave as in the lower one. At the Top of the upper Sheave is a Kin" to hanw the Machine in a fixed Place, and at the Bottom of the other, there is another Ring to hang the Weights to.

The Use of this Machine is to lift up or draw great Burdens, by multiplying the Force of the Power, which augments, in the Ratio of Unity, to double the Number of the Pullies in the lower Sheave ; so that in this Instrument, where the lower Sheave carries eight Pullies, if the Weight (4) weighs 16 Pounds, the Power need be but a little above one Pound to make an Equilibrium •, I fay, a little above, because of the Friction of the Ropes and Axes. The Pullies of the upper Sheave do not at all contribute to the Augmentation of the Force, but only to facilitate the Motion in taking away the Friction of the Rope, because being as Lea- vers of the first kind, whose fixed Point is in the Middle, the Power will be equal to the Weight •, but the Pullies below are as Leavers of the second Kind, whose fixed Point is at one of the Ends : for their Diameter is, as it were, fixed at one End, and lifted up at the other -, by which each of the Pullies double their Force, since the way moved through by the Power, is double to that moved through by the Weight.

The Construction of the Wind-Cane.

This Instrument is about three Foot long, and twelve or fifteen Lines in Thicknefs. The Fig. 12. Tube 3 is made of Brass, very round, and well foldered, from 4 to 6 Lines in Diameter, flopped at one End a. At the Place 1 is likewise another larger Tube, so disposed about the former one, that there remains a Space 4, wherein the Air may be ciofely included. Thefe two Tubes ought to be joined together at one End by a circular Plate c r, exactly foldered to them both, for hindering the Air's getting out of the Space 4. The Piece 8 is a v alvc flop- ping a Hole, permitting the Air to pass from 2 towards 1, but not to return from 1 towards 2. There are, moreover, two Holes near the ftopped End of the Tube 3 ; thro' one of these Holes, which is marked 6, the Air would come out of the Space 4 into the Tube 3, if it was not hindered by a Spring- Valve opening outwardly. The other Hole is marked 5, thro' which there is a Communication with the outward Air, and the Air in the Cavity of the Tube 3 ; but yet fo, that the Air, inclofed in the Space 4, cannot come out thro' the Hole 5, it being hindered by a little fhort Tube foldered to the Tubes 1 and 3. Laftly, the Tube 2 reprefents the Body of a Syringe, by which as much Air as poflible may be intruded into the Space 4 ; after which having put a Bullet into the Cavity of the Tube 3, near the little Tube 5, the Cane will be charged. Now, to difcharge it, you must pufh up the Spring- Valve 6, by means of a little Pin exactly filling the Cavity of the little Tube 5 ; then the comprefied Air, in the Cavity 4, will dilate itfelf ; and pafling thro' the Hole 6, into the Ca- vity of the Tube 3, will pufh the Bullet out with a great force, even to it's penetrating thro' a Board of an ordinary Thicknefs.

Note, At Number 7 this Cane may be taken into two Pieces, by unferewing of it \ and the Handle 12 may be taken out, and inftead thereof the Head of a Cane put thereon.

The Conftruflion of the JEoliple.

This Instrument is made of hammered Copper, in form of a Ball, or hollow Pear, having pjg ,« a Neck foldered to it, and a very little Hole drilled at the End of this Neck.

The Air in the Ball is first rarefied, by bringing it to the Fire ; and afterwards plunging it into cold Water, will condenfe the Air in it, and the Water will pass thro' the little Hole into the Cavity of the Instrument.

Now having let about as much Water, as will fill \ of the iEolipile, get into it, if it be fet upon a good Fire, in the fame Situation as in the Figure, the Water, as it grows hot, will di- late itfelf by little and little, and throw up Vapours into the Space of Air contained between the Surface of the Water, and the little Hole at the End of the Neck, which, together with the Air, will very fwiftly crowd thro' the little Hole, and produce a Wind and violent Hiding, continuing 'till all the Water be evaporated, or the Heat extinguiftied. Note, This Wind has all the Properties of the natural Wind blowing upon the Surface of the Earth.

The Construction of four different Micro f copes. This is a Microfcope for viewing very minute Objects and Animals that are in Liquors. Fig. 14. it is compofed of two Plates of Brass, or other Metal, about 3 Inches long, and 8 Lines broad, fattened together, nigh the Ends, by two Screws, 2, 2, which likewise ferve to fix the Hates at inch a Diitance from each other, that a Wheel may turn which has fix round Holes, in every of which are fiat Pieces of Glass to put different Objects uoon, marked 3, 4, 5, &c. Next to the Eye there is a concave Piece of Brass 1, having a Hole 'in the Middle, in which is put a very imall Lens, or Ball of Glass. This Ball ought to be very convex, and well polifhed, in Order to diftinguifti minute Objects. The End of the Machine is filed in manner of a Handle to hold it.

The Use of this Instrument is very eafy ; if the Objects are tranfparent, as the Feet of a Flea, or of Flies, their Wings, the Mites in Cheefe, or other minute Animals •, as likewise Hairs of the Head, their Roots, &c. they are put upon the Glass Plates on the Wheel, and are held faff, with a little Gum-water: and to fee the little Animals in ftale Urine, Vinegar, in Water where there has been infused Pepper, Coriander, Straw, Hay, or almost any kind of Herbs •, little Drops thereof must be taken up with the End of a little Glass Pipe, and laid upon the aforsaid Glasses: then the Wheel must be turned and raifed, or depRested by means of the Screws 2, 2, and a Spring between the Plates, which ferves to keep the Wheel in any Situation required, in such manner that a little Drop may be exactly under the Lens. Things being thus ordered, take the Microfcope in your Hand, and having placed your Eye to the Concave i, over the Lens, look fleadily at the Drop in broad Day-light, or at Night by the Light of a Wax -Candle; at the fame time turn the Screw at the End by little and little, to brino- the Drop nigher, or make it further from the Lens, until the Point be found where the Object will be tranfparent, or the Animals fwimming in the Drop of Liquor, appear very large and diftinct.

Conjlrutlion of another Microfcope.

Fig. 15. This Microfcope is compofed of a Brass Plate about three Inches high, and f an Inch broad,

cut in Form of a Parallelogram, at the Bottom of which there is a Handle to hold it. The Place marked 1, is a little Groove drilled thro' the Middle, in the Hole of which is placed a Lens fattened in a little Frame ; there may be put into it Lenses of diverfe Foci, according to the different Objects to be observed. Note, That the Focus of a Glass, is it's Distance from the Object, and that Lenses are used in these Microfcopes, whose Foci are from half a Line to four Lines.

On the Backfide of the aforsaid Plate (at the Place 2.)* is fixed a little square Branch of Brass or Steel, carrying another Plate that Aides upon it by means of a little Box, a Spring, and a Screw, turned by help of a Wheel, cut into Teeth, which ferves to bring the said Plate nigher to, or more distant from that which carries the Lens. Towards the Top of the second Plate ; which has a Hole drilled in it, is also a Groove, in which is placed little Pieces of plain Glass, and round Concaves to put Liquors on. There may be different GlafiTes put in that Groove for viewing different Objects. Laftly, Obferve that all the Objects anfwer to the Center of the Lens, and that there must be adjufted on the other Side of the Plate a little Tube (marked 3.) of Brass, about an Inch Diameter, and one or two long, whose Center muff, very exactly anfwer to the Center of the Lenses. It has been found that with such a Tube, these Microfcopes will have much more effect upon tranfparent Objects, than without it. The Circulation of the Blood may pretty diftinctly be observed in the Tails of little Fifties by this Microfcope, which is, in my Opinion, the most commodious of any.

The Use of this Instrument is very eafy ; for having placed the Object over-against the Center of the Lens, move it backwards and forwards by means of the Screw, 'till it be feen very diftinctly.

Conjlrutlion of afingle Glass Microfcope.

Fig. 16. The little Instrument of Fig. 16. is a Microfcope commodious enough, compofed of a

Branch of Brass, or other Metal, having a Motion towards the Top, for putting it into the Situation a$per Fig. The Piece, at the End, carries a very convex Lens, magnifying the Object very much : this Branch is fcrewed into a little Box 5, bored through the Bottom. The Piece 4, is two Springs faftened to one another in the Middle with a Rivet, to give it a Mo- tion defired. The Branch which carries the Lens, is put through one of the Springs ; and through the other there is put a little Branch, carrying at one End the Piece 2, which is white on one Side, and black on the other, for different Objects. The other End 3, is a little kind of Pincer, which opens by prefllng two little Buttons ; it ferves to hold little Ani- mals, or other Bodies. The Foot 5, is about 1 4. Inch in Diameter, the Branch fcrews into it, in order to take to pieces the Instrument.

The Use of it is very eafy, for the Objects being placed upon the little round Piece, or at the End of the Pincer, you must bring the Lens towards them, by Aiding the Spring along the Branch, 'till the Objects be feen very diftinct.

There may likewise be difcovered with this Microfcope, the Animals which are in Liquors, by putting a fiat Glass in the Place of the little round Piece 2, which unferews.

Conflruclion of a Three -Glass Microfcope.

Fig. 17. This Instrument is compofed of three Glasses, viz. the Eye Glass 3, the Middle Glass 4,

and the Object Lens 5. There is a Cover fcrewed on at the Top to preferve the Eye Glass from Duft : these three Glasses are fet in wooden Circles, and fcrewed into their Places, for eafier taking them out to cleanfe. The Eye Glass, and the Middle one, are placed at the Ends of a Tube of Parchment, exactly entering into the outward Tube, in order to lengthen the Microfcope, and place it at it's exact Point, according to a Line drawn round about the

•iorefaid Tube. To have this Instrument of a reasonable Bigncfs, the focal Distance of the Eye^Giafs ought to be about 20 Lines, that of the middle Glass about 3 Inches, and placed about a Inches 2 Lines distant from one another.

The Object Lens is placed at the End of a wooden Tail-piece, glued to the End of the outward Tube, and is enclofed in a little Box, bored through the Bottom, which unferews in order to change the Object Lenses, and put in others of different focal Distances, which are commonly 2, 3, 4, and 5 Lines in Diameter, and are more or less convex. The Goodnefs of these Glasses confifts in having the concave Brass Bafons they are ground in, turned in a juft. Proportion to the Glasses to be worked •, as also in the Motion of the Hand, and the Good- nefs of the Matter used to conftruct them, and above all in well polifhing them. Brown Free- fone is first used to fafhion them in the Bafon, then fine Sand to fmooth them, and Tripoli to polifh them. I mall fay no more of the Conftruction of these Glasses, M. Cherubin hav- ing fufliciently fpoken thereof.

°Tht Foot 1, which ought to be pretty heavy to keep the Mifcrofcope from falling, is made of Brass 4 or 5 Inches in Diameter, having a Cavity in the Middle, wherein is put a little Piece, white on one Side, and black on the other: black Objects are placed upon the white Side, and white Objects upon the black Side!

The round Brass Branch is fattened at the Edge of the Foot, upon which the Microfcope may Hide up or down, and turn round by means of the Support or double Square 2 : there is a Circle, or Ring, strongly fattened to the Support, and which very exactly encompasses the outward Tube. There is also a Steel Spring which bears against the Branch, and keeps the Inttrument in a required Situation.

Number 6, is a little Brass Frame, having in it a Piece of flat Glass to lay tranfparent Objects upon. This Frame may Aide Up and down the Branch underneath the Microfcope, and is fupported by a double Square.

Laftly, Number 7 is a convex Glass converging the Rays of Light, coming from a Candle under it •, and throwing them strongly under the tranfparent Object on the Glass, makes it be feen more diftinctly. The aforsaid Glass is fet in a Brass Circle, and rifes, falls, and turns by means of a little Arm carrying it, as the Figure fhews.

U S E of the aforsaid Microfcope.

To use this Instrument, for Example, to obferve the Circulation of the Blood in some Ani* mal 5 a live Fifh muff ' e placed upon the Glass 6, so that one part of the Fins of the Tail be exactly opposite to the Object Glass, and over the Ray of the Convex-Glass in broad Daylight, or the Spot of the Candle, in the Night ; then place the Microfcope exactly to such a Point, and you will fee the Blood rife, defcend, or circulate.

Number 9, is a little Piece of Lead hollowed, to keep the Fifh from any how ftirring to hinder the Experiment.

Liquors may also by this Microfcope be very well examined ; for if you put a little Drop of Vinegar upon the Glass juft over the bright Spot-, the little Animals in it will very diftinctly be observed. The fame may be observed of Water in which Pepper or Barley has been in- fused, &c. as also the Eels and other little Animals observed in ftanding Water.

A Drop of Blood may be observed by putting it hot over the Speck of the Candle, upon the Glass •, after which it's Serofity, and little Globules of a reddifti Colour, may be difcovered therein.

The beft way to get a Drop of Blood is to tie a Thread about one's Thumb, and then prick it with a Needle.

The beft way to put Liquors upon the Glass, is by taking a Drop of them up with the small End of a little Glass Tube ; and then blowing foftly at the other End, will make the Li* quor defcend and drop upon the Glass.

To get a great Number of little Eels in a small Quantity of Liquor •, the Liquor must be put into a very narrow-necked Bottle, and always kept full ; for by this means, the Animals coming to the Top to get Air, may be fucked into a little Tube in greater Numbers, than if the Neck of the Bottle was wider.

The Eyes of Flies, Ants, Lice, Fleas, and Mites, are put in the Middle of the Foot of the Microfcope, as also Sand, Salt, &c. to examine their Colours and Qualities ; always ob- ferving to lay black Objeds upon the white, and white Objects upon the black Side.

I suppose here that the Microfcope Glasses are well worked, and placed in their Foci. Note also, that the fhorter the Focus of an Object Glass is, the greater will the Object ap- pear, but not altogether so diftinct.

BOOK IV.

Of the ConflruBion and Uses of Mathematical Instruments for me a faring and laying out of Land, taking of Plots , Heights j and Diflances ; the most ufaal of which, are Staffs, Lines, the Toife or Fathom, the Chain, Sur- veying-Croffes or Squares, Recipient-Angles or Mea- fare-Angles, Theodolites, the Quadrant, the Semi- circle, and the Compass.

one End, upon which are put pointed Caps of Iron, to make them go eafier into the Ground. There are fometimes longer ones made, in or- der to be feen at a great distance.

Lines ought to be of good Packthread, or Whipcord, well twitted, and of a convenient Thicknefs, that they may not eafily ftretch.

The Toife, or Fathom, is a round Staff 6 Foot long, divided into Feet by little Rings, or Brass Pins ; the last Foot being divided into \i Inches, likewise distinguished by little Brass Pins.

There are Toifes that may be taken into 2, 3, or 4 Pieces, by means of Ferils and Brass Screws at the End of each Piece.

There are also two Brass or Steel Ferils, put upon each End of the Toife, to preferve it's Length.

The Chain is compofed of several Pieces of thick Iron or Brass Wire, bent at the Ends, each of which is a Foot long, and are joined together with little Rings.

Chains are commonly a Perch, or else 4 or 5 Toifes in Length, distinguished by a great Ring from Toife to Toife. Thefe fort of Chains are very commodious, because they will not entangle themfelves, as thofc will that are made with little Iron Rings.

In the Year 1668, there was placed a new Toife for a Standard, at the Foot of the Stairs of the Grand Chatelet at Paris y for having recourfe to in cafe of Keed.

We have said that a Toife in Length contains 6 Feet, and each Foot 12 Inches. A square Toife contains 36 square Feet, and a square Foot 144 Inches ; because 6 times 6 is 36, arid 12 times 12 is 144.

A Cubick Toife contains 216 Cubick Feet, and a Cubick Foot 1728 Cubick Inches • be- caufe the Cube of 6 is 216, and the Cube of 12 is 1728.

The Length of a Perch is not determined.

That of Paris is 3 Toifes, or 18 Feet j in other Countries it is 20, 22, and 24 Feet.

The Perch, used in France, to measure Waters and FoRests, according to the last Regula- tion, is 22 Feet long, and confequently a square Perch is 484 square Feet.

The Arpent is a fuperficial Meafure, used to measure Ground or Woods.

The Arpentof Paris, and the adjacent Parts, contains 100 square Perches, or 900 Toifes; the Side of which must confequently be 10 Perches, or 30 Toifes.

A League is a Meafure for High- ways, or great Distances ; it's Length is not determined, being different in different Countries.

It is reckoned from the Gate of Paris, nigh the Grand Chatekt, to the Gate of the Church of St Dennis, 2 Leagues, each of which is 2200 Toifes.

The Gentlemen of the Academy of Sciences have found, that a Degree of a great Circle of the Earth contains 57060 Toifes ; and giving 25 Leagues to a Degree, each League will contain 2282 Toifes.

A Sea-League is greater, for there goes but 20 to make a Degree j therefore it contains about 3000 Toiles.

The Italians reckon by Miles, each of which contains 1000 Geometrical Paces.

A Geometrical Pace is five of the antient Feet, one of which the antient Roman Palm is three quarters, which may be efteemed about 11 of our Inches; and confequently an Italian Mile contains ab/vjt 769 of our Toifes.

The Germans also reckon by the Mile, but they are much greater than the Italian Miles 1 for one or them contains 3626 Toifes.

They count by Leagues in Spain, one of which contains 2863 Toifes, 20 of which exa&ly make one 7 erreilrial Degree, ' '

The fame may be laid of the Englijh and Butch Leagues.

U S E I. To draw a right Line thro' two Points given upon the Ground, and produce it

to any required Length.

Plant a Staff upon each of the given Points, very upright, and having drained a Line from one Staff to the other ; by that Line, as a Guide, draw a Line upon the Ground.

That right Line may be continued by planting a third Staff, lb that by placing the Eye to the Edge of the first, the Edges of the two others may be but juft feen j and again, the Line may be continued, by taking that Staff, which was the first, and placing it as a third, fcV.

USE II. To measure a right Line upon the Ground.

When a long Line upon the Ground is to be measured, Precaution must be used that we

do not m.ftake and be obliged to begin again. To do which, two Men must each of

them have a Toife ; the first having laid down his, must not lift it up, 'till the second

has placed ms at the End of the first Man's Toife. The first Man having lifted up his Toife,

Tr A «° Unt *' , a r d Wl ? en he haS a S ain laid his down t0 the End of the second Man's the second Man must lift up his, and count 2. In thus continuing on to the End, and in or- der to lay the 1 oifes in a right Line, there must be placed two Staffs, at a Distance before

d Tei to ofk at ; re is but one ' the Toifes cannot be so m,1 y laid in a r, S ht Line

To fpare Time and Pains you ought to have a Chain of 30 Feet, or 5 Toifes long, with a Ring at each End carried by two Men, the first of which carries several Staffs. When the Uiain is well extended on the right Line to be measured, the foremost Man must place a Staff

for the wh ? ll ' V°n - G Knd n tHat thC hinder Ma " "^ kn0W where the Chai " «"kd J

tor the whole Matter confifts in well counting, and exactly measuring.

USE III. From a Point given in a right Line, to raife a Perpendicular. Let the given Line be A B, and the given Point C.

fron a tt\? v a f r n ^ ? Ta C ' u nd tW £ others &gt; as E &gt; D » in the fame Line, equally distant FitJ , • W into uv ^ '' p" faften x, the 7° Ends ° f a Line to the two Staves E . D, and fold the F * '" Staff a nd he LTne F T ■?, I '' aftc ™ rds , ftretch th e Line tight, and at the Point F plant a

ocan and the Line F C will be perpendicular to A B.

theVe the^aff ? eaf ^t 4 *?'' ° r 4 T ° ifeS ' fr0m the Point C &gt; ™ the Line A B, and plant Fig . 2 feJr T U a l n C ^T , Con u tain T in g 8 Feet &gt; or 8 Toifes (according as the forme! are 8 then Ltch th/ T W Tu^ °K the Line t0 the StafF C &gt; and the &lt;*& &lt;° the Staff G ,

a Staff in H lYX' T ^ ? ° f those Parts be next to the Point C &gt; and 5 next to C ; plan a fctart in H, and the Line H C will be perpendicular to A B. *

U S E IV. From a given Point without a Line, to draw a Perpendicular.

Let the given Line be A B, and the Point F

Halm (Chief 1 i'Vunn^f 7° fqUal P u rtS ' and fix the MiddIe t0 the StaffF J ftrctch the tw ° Fig. 3. naives (which I fu Ppo f e long enough) to the Line A Bj then plant two Staffs, namely, one 8 3 to each End of your Line* and divide their Di (lance into two equal Parts, which may be done by folding a Line as long as the Distance A B j plant a Staff in the middle C, and the Line CF will be perpendicular to the Line AB.

USE V. To draw a Line parallel to another ', at a given Bijlance from it.

fig. 4. Let the given Line be A B, and it is required to draw a Line parallel to it at the Distance of 4 Toifes.

Raife (by Use 3.) two Perpendiculars, each of 4 Toifes, upon the Points A, B-, and upon the Points C, D plant two Staffs ; by which draw the Line C D, which will be parallel to AB.

X3 S E VI. To make an Angle on the Ground, at the End of a Linei equal to an Angle given*

Fig. 5. Let A B C be the given Angle (which suppose is drawn upon Paper).

About the Point B, as a Center* defcribe uport the Paper the Arc A C, and draw the right Line A C, which will be the Chord of the said Arc. Meafure with a Scale, or the Line of equal Parts of the Sector, the Length of one of the equal Legs A B, or B C of the said Angle; likewise measure, with the fame Scale, the Length of the Chord AC ; which, fof Example, suppose 36 of those equal Parts, whereof the Leg AB contains 30.

Now let there be upon the Ground a right Line, as B C, to which it is required to draw another Line FB, making an Angle with BC equal to the proposed one. Plant a Staff in the Point B, and having measured 30 Feet, or 5 Toifes, on the Line B C, there plant a Staff, as D ; then take two Lines, one of 30 Feet long, which faften to the Staff B, and the other 36 Feet, which likewise faften to the Staff D : Draw the Lines tight, and make their Ends meet in the Point F, where again plant a Staff, from which draw the Line F B ; which will form, at the Point B, the Angle F B C equal to the proposed one ABC.

USE VII. To draw upon Paper an Angle, equal to a given one upon the Ground.

fig. j. This Problem is the Converfe of the former.

Let the given Angle upon the Ground be F B C •, measure 30 Feet, or 5 Toifes, from B towards C, at the End of which plant the Staff D ; measure likewise 30 Feet from B towards F, and there plant another Staff; measure also the Distance of the Staffs F, D, which fup- pofe will be 36 Feet (as in Use VI.).

Now let B C be a Line upon the Paper ; then about the Point B, as a Center, and with a Length of 30 equal Parts (taken from a Scale) defcribe the Arc A C ; and take 36 of the fame Parts, and lay them off from the Point C, upon the Arc C A, and a Line drawn from B to A will make, with the Line B C, the Angle required.

If, moreover, the Quantity of the aforsaid Angle be defired, it will be' found, by the Protractor, fomething less than 64 Degrees.

The Quantity of Angles (whose Chords are known), in Degrees and Minutes, may more exa&lt;ftly be known by the following Table, which is calculated for Angles, always contained under equal Sides of 30 Feet each.

The Use of the said Table is very eafy for finding the Quantity of any Plane Angles upon the Ground : for measure 30 Feet upon each of the Lines forming an Angle, and plant a Staff at the End of 30 Feet upon each Line ; then measure the Distance between the two Staffs, which suppose to be 36 Feet (as in the preceding Example), look in the Table in the Column of Bases of 36 Feet, and you will find over against it, in the Column of Angles, 63 Degrees, 44 Minutes, the Quantity of the said Angle.

Note, That in the Columns of Bases are only fet down every 2 Inches, and the Feet from 1 to 60. By means of this Table may be eafily and exactly found the Opening and Quantity of any Angle •, for suppose your Base be in Length 50 Feet, 3 Inches, and the other 2 Sides each 30 Feet, which they must always be. Seek 50 Feet, 2 Inches, in the Column of Bases ; and against it you will find, in the Column of Angles, 113 Deg. 28 Min. whence by making due Proportion with the Inches and Minutes, the Quantity of the Angle fought will be 113 Deg. 44 Min. This Table, together with a well divided Brass Scale, may be used in meafur- ing or laying off Angles upon Paper, with as much Exactnefs as Lines will do them upon the Ground ; because the Sides of equi-angled Triangles are proportional to each other.

This Method of measuring plane Angles, may likewise ferve to make Designs of Fortifica- tion, both regular and irregular, to find the Quantities of Angles, as well of Baftions as of the Polygon, formed by the Concourfe of the Lines of the Bases, or exterior Sides, either up- on Paper or the Ground.

To draw Angles by this Table, feek for the Degrees and Minutes you defign an Angle to confift of, which, for Example, suppose 54 Deg. 34 Min. and against them, in the Column of Bases, is the Number of Feet and Inches correfponding thereto, viz. 27 Feet, 6 Inches ; which is the Length of the Base of the Angle, each of the other Sides of which is 30 Feet, and so of others.

I o 2 The ConjiruEiion and Uses Book IV,

USE VIII. To take the Plane, or Plot of a Place within it.

F,-g. 6. Let the Place whose Plan is required, be A B C D E.

First, make a Figure upon your Paper, fomething like the Plan to be taken, and after hav- ing measured with a Toife the Sides A B, B C, C D, D E, and E A, write the Lengths found upon each of their correfponding Lines on the Paper ; then inftead of measuring the Angles made by the Sides, measure the Diagonals AD, BD, which write down in your Book, and the Figure will be reduced into three Triangles, whose Sides are all known, because they have been actually measured. Then the Figure must be drawn neat in your Book by means of a Scale of equal Parts.

Note, Of all the Ways to take the Planes of Places, that of taking it within is the beft.

USE IX. To take the Plot of any Place (as a Wood, or marfhy Ground) by measuring round about it.

jr,V - First draw a rough Sketch of the Figure in your Field-Book : if it takes not too much time

in going round the Place •, then measure with a Toife, or Chain, all the Sides encompassing the Figure proposed, and fet the Numbers found upon each correfpondent Line, in your Book •, but for the Angles, you must measure them as follows.

To measure, for Example, the Angle E F G, produce the Side E F, 5 Toifes, and plant a Staff at the End K •, produce also the Side G F, the Length of 5 Toifes, and plant a Staff at the End L. Meafure the Distance LK, and supposing it 6 Toifes, 4 Feet, that is 40 Feet, fet it down upon the Line L K in your Book, by which means the three Sides of the Ifofceles Triangle L F K will be had -, and confequently the Angle LFK, may be known by the afore- mentioned Table, or otherwise. Now the aforsaid Angle is equal to it's opposite one E FG, and if you feek 40 Feet in the Column of Bases, the Angle will be found 83 Deg. 37 Min.

In the fame manner may the Angle F G H, or any other of the proposed Figure, be mea- fured : or else thus, Produce the Side HG, the Length of 5 Toifes, to N, where plant a Staff; make likewile G M, 5 Toifes. Meafure the Distance M N, which suppose, for Ex- ample, 6 Toifes, 2 Feet, or 38 Feet, which write upon the Line M N in your Book.

This Number fought in the Column of Bases, correfponds to 78 Deg. 35 Min. for the txterior Angle M G N, whose Complement 101 Deg. 25 Min. is the Quantity of the Angle FGH.

Then the Figure in your Field-Book must be drawn neat by means of a Scale of equal Parts, as well to denote the Lengths of the Sides, as the Bases of all the Angles, which may exactly be had without the Trouble of taking their Quantities in Degrees and Minutes.

U S E X. To draw any regular Polygon upon a given Line on the Ground.

Fig. 8. Let, for Example, the given Line be A B, upon which it is required to make an equilateral Triangle.

Meafure 30 Feet upon the Line A B, from A to D, where plant a Staff: then take 2 Lines, each 30 Feet long, one of which faften to the Staff D, and the other to the Staff A, and ftretch them 'till their Ends join in the Point C, where plant another Staff.

Make the fame Operation at the other End of the given Line, and produce the Lines AC, and B F, 'till they meet in the Point E, and form the equilateral Triangle A E B required. Fig. 9. If a Square be to be made upon the given Line A B, raife upon each End A and B, a

Perpendicular (by USE HI.).

Then make each of those Perpendiculars equal to the Line given, plant Staffs at their Ends C and D, and draw the Line CD, which will compleat the Square proposed. Fig. 10. If a Pentagon is required to be drawn upon the given Line A B :

You will find that the Angles formed by the Sides of a Pentagon, are each 108 Degrees ; (as before has been said, in USE 3. of the Protractor, and in the third Section, concerning the Line of Polygons of the Sector) ; therefore feek for, in the Table of Plane Angles, the Number that anfwers to 108 Degrees, or nighly approaches it, and you will find 48 Feet, and fomething above 6 Inches : for that Number anfwers to 107 Deg. 52 Min. which is leffer by 8 Min. than 108 Degrees •, whence 48 Feet, 6 i Inches, may be taken for the aforsaid Base.

Now measure upon the given Line, from the Point A towards B, 30 Feet, and plant a Staff in the Point C, where the said Length terminates : then take 2 Lines, one 30 Feet, the End of which faften to the Staff A ; and the other 48 Feet, 6 4 Inches, which likewise faften to the Staff C j (train the Lines equally, 'till they join in the Point E, where plant a Staff, and by that means will be had an Angle of 108 Degrees: then produce the Line A E, 'till it be equal to A B ;• make the fame Operation at the End B of the given Line, by which means three Sides AB, AG, B D, of the required Pentagon will be had, which afterwards may be compleated by the fame Method.

If the Pentagon be not too big, it may be compleated by means of 2 Lines, each equal to the given Side, one faftened to the Staff D, and the other to the Staff G ; for if they are equally (trained, they will form the two other Sides of the Polygon, by meeting in the Point H.

Any other regular or irregular Polygon, by the fame Method, may be made upon the Ground, by feeking in the before-mentioned Table, the Number of Feet and Inches anfwer- ing to the Angle of the Polygon to be drawn.

USE XI. To find the Dijlance of two Objects, inaccejfible in refpecl of each other.

The Distance, for Example, from the Tower A, to the Windmill B, is required. Fig. ii;

Plant the Staff C in some Place from whence it may be eafy to measure the Distance in a right Line from it to the Places A and B.

Meafure thcfe Distances exactly, as for Example, from C to A* which suppose 54 Toifes ; then produce the Line A C to D, likewise 54 Toifes : measure also the Line B C, which fup- pofe 37 Toifes, and produce it to E, so that C E may be 37 Toifes likewise j by which means the Triangle CDE, will be formed equal and similar to the Triangle ABC, and confe- quently the Distance D E will be equal to the proposed inaccefilble Distance from B to A.

USE XII. To find the Dijlance of two Objetls, one of which is inaccejfible.

Let it be proposed, for Example, to find the Breadth A B of a River : being at one of it*s Tig. it. Sides A, plant there a Staff AC, 4 or 5 Feet high, and very upright •, make a Slit towards the Top of the Staff, in which put a very ftraight Piece of Steel or Brass (that may flide up and down), about 3 Inches long, which mull be flipped up or down, 'till the Point B, on the other Side of the River be feen along it •, afterwards turn the Staff, and look along (keeping the aforsaid Piece of Brass in the fame Pofition) the Side of the River upon level Ground* 'till you fee the Point D, where the vifual Rays terminate. The Distance AD measured with a Chain, will give the Breadth of the River, to which it is equal.

This Propofition, as fimple as it is, may ferve to know what Length Timber must be of* to make Bridges over Ditches or Rivers.

USE XIII. To draw upon the Ground a right Line from the Point A, to the Point Bj hi' tween which there is a Building, or other Obftacle, that hinders the continuing of it.

Find, upon very level Ground, a third Point, as C, from which you may fee Staffs planted Fig. 13. in the Points A and B ; then measure exactly the Distance from C to A, and from C to B : this being done, take the Half, Third, or any other Part of each of those Lines, whereat plant Staffs, as in D bifecting C B, and in E bifecting C A ; then draw a right Line from D to E, which produce as is neceffary, and draw a Parallel to it pafling by the Points A and B, by means of Staffs planted betweent the Point A and the Houfe, as also between the Houfe and the Point B, which will fhew the Direction from A to B.

USE XIV. // is required to cut a Pajfage thro" a Hill from the Point A to B.

Draw on one Side of the Hill a right Line, as DC, and on the other Side another right Fig. 14; Line, as E T, parallel to C D ; then let fall from the Point A, to the Line C D, the Perpen- dicular A G ; and in some other Point beyond the Hill, draw another Perpendicular, as CH* equal to A G.

Again ; from the Point B, let fall upon the Line E F the Perpendicular B I ; and from fome other Point beyond the Hill, draw another Perpendicular to the fame Line, as L M, equal to B I, so that the Distance I L, may be equal to C G •, then draw a right Line from the Staff H, to the Staff M (and produce it as far as is neceffary), which will be parallel to 'the Paifage to be made from A to B ; therefore any Number of Staffs may be planted at an equal Distance to that Parallel H M on both Sides the Hill, as O, P, Q^ which will ferve as a Guide to pierce the Hill thro' from A to B.

I (hall again mention the Use of the aforsaid Instruments, in the little Treatifc of Fortifi- cation, hereafter laid down.

CHAP. II.

Of the Defer tption and Use of the Survey ing-Cr of s.

THE Surveying-Crofs is a Brass Circle of a good Thicknefs, and 4, 5, or 6 Inches Fig. 15. Diameter. It is divided into 4 equal Parts, by two Lines cutting one another at right Angles in the Center. At the four Ends of these Lines, and in the Middle of the Limb, there are fixed four strong Sights well riveted in square Holes, and very perpendicularly flit over the aforsaid Lines, having Holes below each Slit, for better difcovering of distant Ob- jects : the Circle is hollowed to render it more light.

Fig. 1 6. Underneath, and at the Center of the Instrument, there ought to be fcrewed on a Ferrel,

ferving to fuftain the Crofs upon it's Staff of 4 or 5 Feet long, according to the Height of the Obferver's Eye. This Staff must be furnifhed with an Iron Point, to go into the Ground

the better.

All the Exactnefs of this Instrument confifts in having it's Sights well flit at right Angles, which may be known by looking at an Object thro' two Sights, and another Object thro' two other Sights : then the Crofs must be exactly turned upon it's Staff, and you must look at the fame Objects through the opposite Sights ; if they are very exactly in the Direction of the Slits, it is a fign the Instrument is very juft.

To avoid breaking or damaging the Crofs, the Staff must first be put in the Ground, and when it is well fixed, the Crofs must be fcrewed upon it.

Thefe kinds of Croftes fometimes are made with eight Sights, in the fame manner as the aforsaid one, and ferve to take Angles of 45 Degrees ; as alio for "Gardeners to plant Rows of Trees by.

U S E I. To take the Plot and Area of a Field within it.

Fig. iy. Let the Field proposed be A BCD E, and having placed at all the Angles Staffs, or Poles

very upright, exactly measure the Line AC (in the manner we have already laid down, or any other at pleafure) then make a Memorial, or rough Draught, fomewhat reprefenting the Field proposed, on which write all the Dimenfions of the Parts of the Line AC, and ot Per- pendiculars drawn from the Angles to the Line A C. If, for Example, you begin from the Staff A, find the Point F in the Line AC, upon which the Perpendicular EF falls: then measure the Lines A F and E F, and fet down their Lengths upon their correfpondent Lines in your Memorial.

Now to find the Point F, plant several Staffs at pleafure in the Line AC; as also the Foot of your Crofs in the fame Line, in such a manner that you may difcover thro' two opposite Sights, two of those Staffs, and thro' the other two Sights (which make right Angles with the two first ones), you may fee the Staff E. But if in this Station the Staff E cannot be feen, remove the Instrument backwards or forwards, 'till the Lines A F, E F, make a right Angle in the Point F,- by which means the Plot of the Triangle A F E will be had.

In the fame manner may the Point H be found, where the Perpendicular DH falls, whose Length, together with that of G F, must be fet down in your Memorial, in order to have the Plot of the Trapezium E F H D. Again, Meafure H C making a right Angle with H D, and the Plot of the Triangle DH C will be had.

Having likewise measured the whole Line A C, there is no more to do but find the Point G, where the Perpendicular B G falls ; and proceeding as before, the Plot of the Triangle ABC may be had, and confequently the Plot of the whole Field A B C D E. The Area of the Field will likewise be had, by adding the Triangles and Trapeziums together, which may eafily be done by the Rules of Planometry, in the following manner :

Suppose, for Example, A F to be 7 Toifes, and the Perpendicular E F 10 ; multiply 7 by 10, and the Product is 70, half of which is 35, the Area of the Triangle AFE.

If moreover the Line FH be 14 Toifes, and the Perpendicular HD 12, add 12 to 10 (which is the Perpendicular F E), the Sum will be 22, half of which being 1 1, multiplied by 14, will give 154 square Toifes, for the Area of the Trapezium E F H D •, and if the Line H C is 8 Toifes, multiplying 8 by 12, the Product is 96, whose half 48, will be the Area of the Triangle C H D.

The whole Line AC is 29 Toifes, and the Perpendicular BG 10; whence the Product: is 290, whose half 145, is the Area of the Triangle ABC. Finally, adding together 35, 154, 48, and 145, the Sum 382, will be the Number of square Toifes contained in the Field ABCDE.

USE II. To take the Plane of a Wood, Morafs^ &c. in which it is not eafy to enter.

Fig. 18. Let the Morafs E F G H I be proposed: Set up Staves at all the Angles, so made as to

include the Morafs within a Rectangle, which measure •, then fubftract the Triangles and Trapezia included between the Sides of the Morafs, and the Sides of the Rectangle, from the said Rectangle, and the Area of the proposed Morafs will be had.

If, for Example, you begin at the Staff E, produce by help of the Crofs the Line E F, as far as is neceffary, to which, from the Point G, let fall the Perpendicular GK; fet up a Staff at K, and produce KG to L, to which, from the Point H, draw the Perpendicular L H, which likewise produce as far as is neceffary: afterwards draw from the Staff E, to the Line HL, produced, the Perpendicular E M : whence the Rectangle E MLK will be had, whose Sides must be measured with a Chain or Toife.

Suppose, for Example, the Line E K, or it's Parallel M L (which ought to be equal to it) is 25 Toifes, and the Line E M, or it's Parallel, 10 Toifes ; multiplying these two Numbers by one another, there will arife 350 square Toifes for the Area of the Rectangle E M L K : but if F K be 5 Toifes, and GK 4, by multiplying 4 by 5, the Product is 20, whose half 10 Toifes, is the Area of the Triangle FKG. The Line GL, being 6 Toifes, and H L 4, the Product of 4 by 6 is 24, whose half 12 is the Area of the Triangle G L H,

Afterwards a Point must be found in the Line HM, where a Perpendicular drawn from the Staff 1 falls, which forms a Triangle and a Trapezium ; so that if the Distance H N be 24 Toifes, and the Perpendicular N I 4 Toifes, 24 by 4 gives 96, whose half 48, is the Area of the Triangle H N I. Laftly, N M being 7 Toifes, M E 10, and it's Parallel N I 4 Toifes, adding 10 to 4, the Sum will be 14, whose half 7, multiplied by 7, produces 49 for the Area of the°Trapezium E M N I.

Therefore adding together the Areas of the three Triangles, and that of the Trapezium, there will be had 119 Toifes, which taken from 350, the Area of the Rectangle, and there remains 231, the Area of the proposed Morafs. The fame may be done with any other Figure. Thefe two Uses are enough to fhew how Surveyors use their Instruments for mea- funng and taking the Plot of any Piece of Ground.

CHAP. III.

Of the ConfiruEiion and Uses of divers Instruments to take Angles.

THERE are several Sorts of Instruments to take Angles, but the belt and mod in ufe, are those whose Defcription we are now going to give.

The Instrument Aj is compofed of two Rules very equal in breadth, for the Insides of FJ g- A. them must be parallel to their Outsides ; their Breadth is about an Inch, and their Length a Foot or more. Those two Rulers are equally rounded at the Top, and faftened to one an- other by means of a Rivet artificially turned, so that the Instrument may eafily open and fhut. When an Angle is taken with it, the Center of a Protractor must be put to the Place where the two Rulers join each other, and the Degrees cut by the Edge, will fhow the Quantity of the Angle ; or else the Angle which the two Rulers make, is drawn upon Paper, and then it is measured with a Protractor.

The Instrument B, is made like the precedent one, only there are two Steel Points at the Fig. B. Ends, in order for it to ferve as a Pair of Compasses.

The Instrument C, is different from the others, because it fhews the Quantities of Angles Fi S- C» without a Protractor.

It is compofed of 2 Brass Rulers of equal Breadth and parallel, about 2 Feet long, and 2 or 3 Inches thick, joined together by a very round Rivet : it has besides a Circle divided in- to 360 Degrees at the End of one of the Rulers, and a little Index fixed to the Rivet, which Ihews the Number of Degrees the 2 Rulers contain between them. I shall not here fhew how to divide the Circle, having fufficiently fpoken of it in the Construction of the Protractor ; only note, that the Degrees are always reckoned from the Middle of the Rule, where the Center is.

There are these Sorts of Instruments made by dividing a Circle upon the under Ruler, and filing the upper one like the Head of a Sector, that thereby the Degrees of the Opening of the Legs may be known, by means of the two Shoulders of the upper Leg.

To measure a faliant Angle with any one of the three Recipient-Angles, apply the Insides of the two Rulers, to the Lines forming the Angle ; and to measure a rentrant Angle, apply the Outsides of the fame Rulers to the Lines forming the Angle.

The Instrument D, is made of 4 Brass Rules, equal in Breadth, joined together by 4 round Fig. D. Rivets, forming an equilateral Parallelogram.

At the End of one of the Rules there is a Semi-circle, divided into 1 80 Degrees. The other Branch pafTing upon the Semi-circle, is continued to the Divisions of the Semi-circle, in order to fhew the Quantities of Angles.

The said Rules are made one or two Feet long, 8 or 10 Lines broad, and of a convenient Thicknefs; they ought to be drilled very equal in Length, namely, that where the Center of the Semi-circle is (marked 2.) and at the other End in the Point 1. That which ferves for an Index, ought to be drilled in the Points 2 and 3. And lastly, The two other Rules in the Point 4. The Rule ferving for an Index, must be faftened to the Center of the Semi-circle ; and the two other Rules, which are of equal Length, must be faftened underneath the two others, all of them so as their Motion may be very uniform.

When a faliant Angle is to be measured with this Instrument, the 2 equal Rules must be put underneath the 2 others, so that the End 4 be underneath 2, and thereby the 4 Rules make but 2 to encompass the Angle : but when a rentrant Angle is to be measured, the two Rules must be drawn out (as per Figure), and applied to the Corner of the Angle-, and since in every Parallelogram the opposite Angles are equal, the Degrees of the Angle may be known by the Semi-circle.

U S E I. Of the Recipient-Angle. To take the Plan of a Baftion •, as, for Example ; A BCD E, make a Memorial, and then Fig. 19, measure, with the Instrument, the rentrant Angle E, made by th» Courtine of the Place, and the flanquant Angle of the proposed Baftion, by applying it horizontally, in such manner that one of the Rules may be in" the Direction of the said Courtine, and the other in the Di- rection of the Flank ; and -having found the Quantity of it in Degrees, frt it down upon a little Arc in your Memorial ; then measure the Flank ED, which fet down upon the Line e d in your Memorial. Again, apply the Rules of your Instrument to the faliant Angle D 4 and fet down it's Quantity upon a little Arc ■, measure the Length of the left Face C D, take the Quantity of the flanquant Angle C, and of. all the other Angles of the Baftion, as likewise the Length of the Faces and Flanks t after which, by help of a Scale, the Plan of the Baftion may be drawn neat.

But since it often happens that these Angles, which are commonly made of Free-Stone, are not well cut, by the Negligence of Workmen, who make them either too acute or obtuse ; to remedy this, there must be a long Rule horizontally applied to each Wall, whose Direction is aood, tho' the Angles are not ; and putting the Legs of the Instrument level upon those two Rules, the Angle to be measured may be more exactly had.

USE II. To take the Plot of a Piece of Ground encompassed by right Lines,

fig. 20. Let the Piece of Ground proposed be ABCDEFG; measure exactly the Length of all

the Sides, and fet them down upon the relative Lines of your Memorial '; then take, with any recipient Angle, the Quantity of each Angle, as, for Example, the Angle A G F, and fet down the Quantity of it upon the relative Angle a g /, in the Memorial •, measure also the Angle FED, by applying the Instrument to it (as per Figure), and fet down the Quan- tity thereof upon the relative Angle of the Memorial, and so of all the other Angles, whose Quantities being noted in Degrees, as likewise the Lengths of all the Lines, the Plot abed efg may be neat drawn, and similar to A B C D E F G.

In this Plate may be feen the Plane of a Pentagon fortified, with the Names of the Parts of it's Fortification.

Of the ConftruEiion a?id Use of the Theodolite.

Plate 12. f | '^ HIS Instrument is made of Wood, Brass, or any other solid Matter, commonly circu- p ig A x l ar &gt; anc * about one Foot in Diameter. In the Center of this Instrument is fet upright a

little Brass Cylinder, or Pivot, about which an Index turns, furnifhed with two Sights, or a Telescope, having a right Line, called The Fiducial Line, exactly anfwering to the Center of the aforsaid little Cylinder, whose Top ought to be cut into a Screw, for receiving a Nut to fallen the Index, upon which is fixed a small Compass for finding the Meridian Line.

The Limb of the Theodolite is a Circle of such a Thicknefs, as to contain about fix round Pieces of Pafteboard within it (of which we are going to fpeak), and of such a Breadth as to receive the Divisions of 360 Degrees, and fometimes of every fifth Minute.

There are several round Pieces of Pafteboard, of the Bignefs of the Theodolite, pierced thro' the Middle with a round Hole, exactly to fit the Pivot-, so that the Pivot may be put thro' each of the aforsaid Holes in the Pieces of Pafteboard, and the upper Pafteboard may have the Index moving upon it. This upper Pafteboard may be fixed at pleafure, by means of a little Point faftened to the Limb of the Instrument, and entering a little way into the Pafteboard. There is commonly drawn with Ink, upon each of these Pafteboards, a Radius or Semidiameter, ferving for a Station-Line.

Underneath the Theodolite is faftened a Ball and Socket, reprefentcd by the Figure D, which is a Brass Ball enclofed between two Shells of the fame Metal, that may be more or less opened by means of a Screw, and a Socket G, in which goes the Head of a three-legged Staff", of which more by and by.

Fig. A, reprefents the Instrument put together. We now proceed to fhew the Construction of the Pieces compofiug it, in beginning with the Division of it's Limb.

First, Draw upon the Limb two or three concentrick Circles, to contain the Degrees, and the Numbers fet at every tenth Degree ; then divide one of these Circumferences into four very equal Parts, each of which will be 90 Degrees ; and dividing each of these four Parts into 9 more, the Circumference will be divided into every tenth Degree. Again, each of these last Parts being divided by 2, and each of those arifing into 5 equal Parts, the whole Circumference will be divided into 360 Degrees. This being done, you must draw the Lines of these Divisions upon their convenient Arcs, by means of a Ruler moving about the Center. Afterwards Numbers must be fet to every tenth Degree, beginning from the Fiducial Line, which is that whereon the two fixed Sights or Telescope is faftened.

A Theodolite thus divided is of much greater Use than those whose Limbs are not divid- ed ; for it may ferve exactly to take the Plots of Places, and measure inaccefiible Distances by Trigonometry.

The Figures B reprefent the Sights which are placed upon different Instruments ; that to which is placed the Eye, hath a long (trait Slit, which ought to be very perpendicular, made with a fine Saw \ and that which is turned towards the Object, hath a square Hole, so large, that the adjacent Parts of a distant Object may be perceived thro' it: And along the Middle of this Hole is drained a very fine Gut, in order to vertically cut Objects, when they are per* ceived thro' the Slit of the other Sight. But that the Eye may be indifferently placed at any one of the two Sights at pleafure, so that Objects may be as well perceived thro' the Sights on one Side the Instrument, on which they are placed, as on the other ; there is made in each Sio-ht a square Hole and a Slit, the Hole in one Sight being below the Slit, and in the other Sio-ht above it, as the little Figures fhew. Thefe Sights ought to be exactly placed on the Extremes, and in the fiducial Line, as well of Instruments as Indexes, and are faftened in little square Holes with Nuts underneath, or else by means of Screws, according as the Place they are fattened on requires.

The little Figure C reprefents the aforsaid Cylinder, or Pivot, with it's Nut, for joining the Index to the Theodolite ; those of Semicircles, and other Instruments, are made in the fame manner, only they are rivetted underneath.

The Figure D reprefents the Ball and Socket for fupporting the Instrument, and is com- pofed of a Brass Ball inclofed between two Shells of the fame Metal, which are made very round, with Balls of tempered Steel cut in manner of a File. Thefe Shells are locked more or less by means of a Screw, that so they may prefs the Ball inclofed between them according to neceffity. One of these Shells is foldered to the Socket G, which is a turned Brass Ferrel, in which the Foot of the Instrument is put. Balls and Sockets are made of different Big- neffes, according to the Bigneffes of Instruments, and are faftened to the Instruments with Screws, in a Plate riveted to the Top of the Ball.

Ccnflruflion of the Feet for fupporting of Instruments.

We have already mentioned the fimple Fe^t for fupporting Surveying-Crofies, which are to be forced into the Ground ; but those whose Defcription we are now going to give, are not to be forced into the Ground, but are opened or fhut according as the Inequality of the Ground, the Instrument is to be used upon, requires.

The Foot E is a triangular Plate, in whose Middle is a Piece b, which is to go into the Socket G.

Underneath the aforsaid Plate are faftened three Ferrels, or Sockets, moveable by means of Joints, for receiving three round Staves of such a Length, that the Obferver's Eye, when the Instrument is using, may commodioufly view Objects thro' the Telescope, or Sights. The Extremities of these Staves are furnifhed with Ferrels and Iron Points, in order to keep the Instrument firm when it is using.

The Foot F confifts of four Staves, about two Foot long, whereof that in the Middle* called the Shank, hath it's Top rounded, that so it may go into the Socket •, the Rest of this Staff is cut in Figure of a Triangle, that so the three Faces thereof may receive upon them three other Staves, faftened by means of three Screws (all of a piece) and so many Nuts. Thefe three Staves are furnifhed with Ferrels and Iron Points, being flat within side, and have three Faces without.

When v/e have a mind to carry this Foot, we re-unite all the Staves together, so that they make, as it were, but one, and by this means are fhorter by about the half, than when the Foot is using.

We generally hang to the Middle of each of these Feet a Thread and Plummet, in order to know the Station- Point.

U S E of the Theodolite.

To take the Map of a Country by this Instrument, chufe two high Places, for Example, Fig. i; the Obfervatory, and the Sah-Petre Houfe, from whence the Country nigh Paris, a Map of which is to be made, may be feen •, then mark round the Center of the upper Pafteboard the Name of the Place chosen for the first Station, and having fixed it by means of the Point on the Limb of the Theodolite, put the Index upon it, which fufficiently fcrew down by means of the Nut and Screw.

Now having placed the Theodolite upon it's Foot, planted at the Obfervatory, and given it a Situation nearly horizontal, so that it may remain fteddy while the Index is moving, obferve thro' the Sights the Steeple of the Salt-Petre Houfe, and along the fiducial Line of the Index from the Center draw the Station-Line.

Then turn the Index, and obferve some remarkable Object thro' the Sights, as the Steeple of Vaugirard, towards which a Line must be drawn upon the Pafteboard, from the Center, along the fiducial Line of the Index, and along this Line write the Name of the Place viewed thro' the Sights.

Again, direct the Index towards some other Object (as Mont-rouge) and draw a Line to- wards it from the Center, along the fiducial Line, and uppn this Line write the Nam* of the Place observed. Proceed in the fame Manner with all the confiderabie Places that can be feen from the Obfervatory.

Now having removed the Theodolite from it's firfl: Station, having well observed it's Place, and tranfported it to some other defigned Place, as to the Salt-Petre Houfe •, measure the exact Distance between the two Stations upon level Ground, the Number of Toifes of which mud be fet down upon your Pafteboard, which must now be turned, or taken from under the Index, that so at every different Station, the upper Face of the Pafteboard, upon which the Index is, may be clean : then fet down about the Center of this new Pafteboard, the Name of the Place of your second Station, and upon the Base Line the Number of Toifes measured, that so you may remember this Line is the fame as that on the precedent Pafte- board. The Theodolite being placed here, difpofe it fo, that placing the fiducial Line of the Index upon the Station Line, you may difcover thro' the Sights, the Obfervatory, which was your first Station.

The Instrument remaining firm in this Situation, turn the Index, and fucceffively. view thro' the Sights the former Objects observed from the Obfervatory, and draw Lines, as before, upon the Pafteboard, along the Index, from the Center towards the Places viewed, and upon each Line write the correfpondent Name of the Place.

If all the Places you have a mind to fet down in your Map, cannot be feen from the two precedent Stations, you must chufe a third Place from whence they may be observed, and make as many new Stations, as are neceffary for perceiving each remarkable Object, from two Places fufficiently distant from each other.

Now to reprefent this Map upon a Sheet of Paper, first draw a right Line at pleafure up- on it, for a common Base, which divide into the fame Number of equal Parts, as you have measured Toifes upon the Ground. About one End of this Line, as a Center, defenbe cir- cular Arcs equal to those drawn upon the first Pafteboard, and upon the other Extreme, Arcs equal to those drawn upon the second Pafteboard, and produce the Lines forming the Arcs 'till they meet each other j then the Points of Concourfe, will be the Points of Pofition of the Places observed.

The aforsaid Places may be laid down upon the Paper eafier, by placing the Centers of the Pafteboards upon the Extremities of the common Base, and noting upon the Paper the Ends of the Lines drawn upon the Pafteboard, and then drawing Lines from the Stations thro' those Points 'till they interfect.

By means of this Theodolite may be had in Degrees, or Parts, all the Angles that the Places viewed thro' the Sights or Telescopes, make, with the Places whereat the Instrument is placed.

What we have said, is fufficient to mew the Manner of using the Theodolite in taking the Pofition of Places, and making of Maps, because the Operations are the fame for all different Places ; but for it's Uses, with regard to Trigonometry, they are the fame as those of the Semi-circle and Quadrant, of which we are going to treat.

It is commonly made of Brass, or other solid Matter, 12 or 15 Inches Radius, and an an- fwerable Thicknefs. It's Circumference is first divided into 90 Degrees, and every Degree into as many equal Parts as pofiible, without Confufion, and in such manner, that the Divi- fions and Subdivifions may be juft, and very diftindtly marked upon the Limb of the In- ftrument.

To do which, there must first be 2 Arcs drawn nigh the Edge of the Quadrant, about 8 or 9 Lines distant from each other ; and after having divided them into Degrees, draw Dia- gonal Lines between them, from the first Degree to the second, from the second to the third, and so on to the last.

After which, if you have a mind to fubdivide every Degree into 10 Minutes, there must 5 Other concentrick Arcs be defcribed from the Center of the Instrument, cutting all the afore- said Diagonals •, but if every Degree is to be fubdivided into Minutes, there must be 9 con- centrick Arcs defcribed between those two first drawn.

The Distances between all these Arcs, must not be all equal, because the Extent of a De- gree taken in the Breadth of the Limb, forms a kind of Trapezium, broader towards the out- ward Arc, and narrower towards the inward one j whence a mean Arc dividing every De- gree

To make these Subdivifions exactly, the Diagonals must be Curve Lines, as R D C, de- Fig H. fcnbed in making the Portion of a circular Arc pass thro' the Center B, the beginning of the 1 ft Degree marked D, upon the inward Arc, and the End C of the fame Degree, on the out- wark Arc : which is eafy to do by Use 18. Lib. 1. which fhews how to make a Circle pass thro' 3 Points given, by which means the Point F, the Center of the Diagonal Curve, pafiing thro' the first Degree, will be found.

Afterwards one of these Diagonal Curves must be divided into equal Parts, and from the Center of the Instrument, there must be drawn as many concentrick Arcs, as each Degree is to have equal Parts.

The Reason of this Operation is, that the Diagonal Curve being divided into equal Parts, if from the Center of the Instrument there are drawn right Lines thro' all the Points of Divi- fion of that Arc, there will be had (per Prop. 27. Lib. 3. Eucl.) as many equal Angles in the Center, becaufc they will be all in the Circumference of the fame Circle, and ftand upon equal Arcs.

But since it is troublefome to find the Centers of 90 Arcs, each pafiing thro' 3 Points •, and since it is manifest, that all the Centers of these Arcs ought to be placed in the Circumfe- rence of a Circle whose Center is the Point B ; there is no more to do but draw a Circle from the Center B, with the Distance BF, and divide it's Circumference into 360 equal Parts - y upon every of which, fetting one Foot of your Compasses, you may defcribe with the fame Extent F B, all the Arcs between the Circles AC, D E, and then the circular Arcs,- which are Diagonals, will likewise divide the Circumferences, upon the Limb of the Inftru- ment, into Degrees. Note, Because the Figure is too little, it is divided but into every 5th Degree.

Diagonal Curves may also be drawn without transferring the Foot of your Compasses frorri one Degree to another, upon the aforsaid Arc, in fixing the Foot of your Compasses in only one Point, as F, and letting the Instrument be gradually turned about the Center of a large Circle, whose Limb is already divided into Degrees, by means of a Rule strongly faftened upon the Instrument, and reaching to the Divisions of the large Circle.

Ingenious Workmen may fhorten their Work by adjufting a fine Steel Ruler, according to the Curvature of the first Diagonal, which being drawn, by this means they may draw all the others. If Diagonal right Lines are to be drawn from one Degree to the other, the Lengths of the Radii of each of the Circumferences cutting the Diagonals, may be found by Trigonometry, an Example of which is as follows :

Suppose a Quadrant be 6 Inches Radius, which is the fmalleft accuftomed to be divided by Diagonals. Suppose also you have a Scale of 1000 equal Parts, and that the Distance from the inward Arc to the outward one, is 9 Lines, anfwering to 125 of such Parts, whereof the Radius is 1000 ; whence, by Calculation, I find that the right-lined Diagonal, drawn from one Degree to that which follows it, is 126 of the fame Parts ; and that the Radius of the in- ward Arc, whicn is 5 Inches, 3 Lines, contains 875 of them.

The obtuse Angle made by the Radius and the Diagonal, is 172 Deg. 2 Min. and after- wards calculating the Lengths of the Radii of the Circumferences cutting the Diagonals, and dividing them into every 10 Minutes, I find that the Radius of 10 Min. is 894 of the fame equal Parts, inftead of 896 which it would have contained, if the Distance between the in- ward and outward Arc had been divided into 6 equal Parts. The Radius of 20 Minutes ought to contain 913 of them, inftead of 917 •, the Radius of 30 Minutes ought to contain gi2 of them, inftead of 938 •, the Radius of 40 Minutes ought to contain 954 of them, in- ftead of 959. Laftly, the Radius of 50 Minutes ought to contain gyy, inftead of 980, which it must, if the aforsaid Distance be divided into 6 equal Parts.

The greateft Error, which is about 5 Parts, anfwers to about '- of a Line, which may caufe an Error of 2 Minutes •, but this Error diminishes in proportion as the Radius of the Quadrant augments in refpecl of the Diagonals, so that the Error will be less by half, if the Radius of the Quadrant be one Foot, and the Distance of the inward and outward Arcs is but 9 Lines.

What we have said as to the Divisions of the Quadrant, may likewise be applied to Theo- dolites, Circles, Semi-circles, or any other Portions of Circles to be divided into Minutes;

As to the Geometrick Square, each Side of it is divided into 100 equal Parts, beginning at the Ends, that so the Number 100 may end at the Angle of 45 Degrees. Thefe Divisions are diftinguilhed by little Lines from 5 to 5, and by Numbers from 10 to 10 ; all those Di- vifions being produced from a kind of Lattice, both ways containing 10000 small and equal Squares.

This Quadrant is furnifhed with two immoveable Sights, faftened to one of it's Semi-dia* meters, and with a Thread and Plummet fixed to the Center, as likewise a moveable Index* with two other Sights, faftened to the Center, with a Headed-Rivet. The Sights are nearly like those belonging to the Theodolite.

Inftead of immoveable Sights, there is fometimes fattened to one of the Radius's of the Quadrant a Telescope, and then the ift Point of Division of the Circumference may be found in the manner as is explained hereafter in the Aftronomical Quadrant : for this Quadrant is dcfigned only to take the Heights and Distances of Places on Earth.

Upon the under Surface of this Quadrant, is a Ball and Socket fattened with 3 Screws, by means of which it may be put into any Pofition fit for Use.

This Instrument may be put in Use in different Situations •, for first, it may be so disposed that it's Plane may be at right Angles with the Horizon, for obferving Heights and Depths, which may yet be done two different ways, viz. in using the fixed Sights, and the Thread and Plummet, and then neither of it's Sides will be found parallel to the Horizon ; or else by keeping the Sights fattened to the Index moveable, and then one of the Semi-diameters of the Quadrant will always be parallel to the Horizon, and the other perpendicular: which may be done by means of a Plummet fufpended in the Center, and then the fixed Sights are ufelefs.

Finally, the Quadrant may be placed so as it's Plane may be parallel to the Horizon, for obferving horizontal Distances with the Index and immoveable Sights, and then the Thread, with it's Plummet, is not in ufe.

Uses of the Quadrant : , with two fxed Sights and a Plummet.

U S E I. To take the Height or Depth of any Objeff in Degrees.

As suppose the Height of a Star or Tower is to be taken in Degrees j place the Quadrant vertically, then place your Eye under that fixed Sight next the Circumference of the Qua- drant, and direct it fo, that the vifual Rays patting through the Holes of the Sights, may tend to the Point of the Object proposed (as to the Sun, it is fufhcient that it's Rays pass thro* the aforsaid Holes) : then the Arc of the Circumference contained between the Thread and it's Plummet, and the Semi-diameter on which the Sights are fattened, will fhow the Complement of the Star's Height above the Horizon, or it's Distance from the Zenith : "Whence the Arc contained between the Thread, and the other Semi-diameter towards the Object, fhews it's Height above the Horizon. The fame Arc likewise determines the Quan- tity of the Angle made by the vifual Ray, and a horizontal Line, parallel to the Base of the Tower.

But to obferve Depths, as those of Wells or Ditches, the Eye mutt be placed over that Sight, which is next the Center of the Quadrant.

The whole Operation confifts in calculating Triangles by the Rule of Three, formed in the the Proportion of the Sines of Angles, to the Sines of their opposite Sides, according to the Rules of right-lined Trigonometry, of which we are now going to give some Examples.

USE II. Let it be required to find the Height of the Tower AH, whose Base is acceffible.

F'g 2. Having planted the Foot of your Instrument in the Point C, look at the Top of the

Tower thro' the fixed Sights \ then the Thread of the Plummet freely playing, will fix itfelf upon the Number of Degrees, determining the Quantity of the Angle made at the Center of the Quadrant, by the vifual Ray, and the horizontal Line, parallel to the Base of the Tower, accounting the Degrees contained between the Thread and the Semi-diameter next to the Tower.

Now suppose the Thread fixes upon 35 Deg. 35 Min. and having exactly measured the level Distance from the Foot of the Tower, with a Chain, to the Place of Observation, you will find it 47 Feet ; then there will be 3 things given, to wit, the Side B C, and the An- gies of the Triangle A B C: for since Walls are always supposed to be built upright, the Angle B is a right Angle, or 90 Deg. and confequently the 2 acute Angles A and C, are to- gether equal to 90 Degrees, because the three Angles of any right-lined Triangle, are equal to 180 Degrees, or 2 right Angles.

Now the Angle observed, is 35 Deg. 35 Min. whence the Angle A is 54 Deg. 25 Min. therefore you may form this Analogy, As the Sine of 54 Deg. 25 Min. is to 47 Feet, So is the Sine of 35 Deg. 35 Min. to a fourth Term, which will be found 33 z Feet-, to which adding 5 Feet, the Height of the Obferver's Eye, and the Height of the proposed Tower will be found 38 f Feet.

USE III. Let it be required to find the Height of the inacceffble Tower D E. Fig. 3. In this Cafe two Obfervations must be made, as follow :

Place the Foot of your Quadrant in the Point F, and look thro' the two immoveable Sights to the Top of the Tower D ; then fee on what Degree the Thread of the Plummet fixes, which suppose on the 34th. This being done, remove the Instrument, planting a Staff in it's Place, and fet it up in some other Place level to the Place it was in before, as in the Point G, in the fame right Line, and look thro' the afore-mentioned Sights, at the Point D of the Tower. Note the Point in the Limb of the Quadrant that the Thread cuts, which suppose 20 Degrees. Meafure likewise very exactly, the Distance between the two Stations, which suppose 9 Toifes, or 54 Feet. ^ This being done, all the Angles of the Triangle DFG will be known, as also the Side FG measured; by which means it will be eafy to find the Side D F, and afterwards the Side E D, by making the following Analogies.

The Angle EFD being found 34 Deg. it's Complement D F G to 180 Deg. will be 146 Peg. and tlie Angle G having been found 20 Deg. it follows that the Angle FDG is 14 Deg. therefore fay, As the Sine of 14 Deg. is to 54 Feet, So is the Sine of 20 Deg. to a fourth Term, which will be 76 Feet, and about - T , for the Side DF: then fay, As Radius is to the Hypo- thenufe FD, So is the Sine of the Angle D F E, to the Side ED, which will be found 42 * Feet ; to which adding 5 Feet, the Height of the Center of the Instrument above the Ground, and there will be had 47 \ Feet, for the Height of the Tower proposed.

Thefe Calculations are much better made with Logarithms, than by common Numbers, because they may be done by only the help of Addition and Subftraction, as is more fully ex- plained in Books of Trigonometry.

Thefe Propofitions, and others the like, may be also geometrically folved, by making Tri- angles similar to those formed upon the Ground.

As to folve the prefent Queftion, make a Scale of ioToifes, that is, draw the right Line AB so long, that the Division of it may be exact; and then divide it into 10 equal Parts, and fubdivide one of these Parts into 6 more, to have a Toife divided into Feet.

Then draw the indeterminate Line EG, and make with a Line of Chords, or Protractor, an Angle at the Point G of 20 Degrees, and draw the indeterminate Line G D. Lay off 9 Toifes, or 54 Feet, from G to F ; then make at the Point F an Angle of 34 Degrees, and draw the Line F D, cutting the Line G D in some Point as D, from which let fall the Per- pendicular D E, which will reprefent the Height of the proposed Tower, and measuring it with the Scale, you will find it to contain 47 Feet, 8 Inches. All the other Sides of these Triangles may likewise be measured with the fame Scale.

USE IV. To find the Breadth of a Ditch, or Well, ivhofe Depth may be measured.

Let it be proposed to measure the Breadth of the Ditch CD, which may be approached. Fig, 4.

Place the Quadrant upon the Brink in the Point A, so that you may fee thro' the Sights the Bottom of the Ditch, at the Point D; then find the Angle made by the Thread upon the Limb, which suppose is 63 Degrees, and measure the Depth A C, from the Center of the Quadrant, which suppose 25 Feet; then make a similar right-angled Triangle, one of whose acute Angles is 63 Degrees (and confequently the other will be 27 Degrees), and the least Side is 25 Parts of some Scale. Laftly, measure with the fame Scale the Side CD, which will be about 49 ; therefore the Breadth of the Ditch is 49 Feet.

USE of the Geometrick Quadrat.

The Quadrant being vertically placed, and the Sights directed towards the Top of the Fig. G. Tower proposed to be measured ; if the Thread of the Plummet cuts the Side of the Qua- drat, whereon is writ right Shadows, the Distance from the Base of the Tower, to the Point of Station, is less than the Tower's Height : if the Thread falls upon the Diagonal of the Square, the Distance is equal to the Height ; but if the Thread falls upon the Side of the Square, whereon b writ verfed Shadows, the Distance of the Tower from you, is greater than it's Height.

Now having measured the Distance from the Foot of the Tower, it's Height may be found by the Rule of Three, in having 3 Terms known, but their Difpofition is not always the fame ; for when the Thread cuts the Side, denoted right Shadow, the first Term of the Rule of Three, ought to be that part of the Side cut by the Thread, the second Term will be the whole Side of the Square, and the third, the Distance measured.

But when the Thread cuts the other Side of the Square, the first Term of the Rule of Three, must be the whole Side of the Square; the second Term, the Parts of that Side cut by the Thread ; and the third, the Distance measured.

Suppose, for Example, that looking to the Top of a Tower, the Thread of the Plummet cuts the Side of right Shadows in the Point 40, and that the Distance measured is 20 Toifes : I order the Rule of Three in the following manner; [40. 100. 20.

Multiplying 20 by 100, and dividing the Product 2000 by 40, there will be found the fourth Term 50, which fhews the Height of the Tower to be 50 Toifes.

But if the Thread of the Plummet falls on the other Side of the Square, as, for Example, upon the Point 60, and the Distance measured is 35 Toifes ; difpofe the three first Terms of the Rule of Three thus, [100. 60. 35.

Multiply 35 by 60, and the Product 2100 being divided by 100, will give 21 for the Height of the Tower.

USE of the Quadrat without Calculation.

All the aforsaid Operations, with many others, may be made without Calculation, as we shall make manifest by some Examples.

USE I. Let us suppose (as we have already done) that the Thread falls upon 40 on the F^g. G. Side of right Shadows, and that the Distance measured is 20 Toifes ; feek amongft the little Squares for that Perpendicular to the Side, which is 20 Parts from the Thread, and that Perpendicular will cut the Side of the Square next to the Center in the Point 50, which will be the Height of the proposed Tower in Toifes.

USE II. But if the Thread cuts the Side of verfed Shadows in the Point 60, and the Distance is 35 Toifes, count upon the Side of the Quadrant, from the Center, 35 Parts ; count also the Divisions of the Perpendicular from that Point 35 to the Thread, which will be a i, the Height of the proposed Tower in Toifes.

Note, In all Cafes the Height of the Center of the Instrument above the Ground, must be added.

USE III. To take an inacceffible Height with the Quadrat.

To do which, there must be made two Stations, whose Distance must be measured, and then there will be three Cafes.

CASE I. When the right Shadow is cut in both Stations by the Thread.

Let us suppose, for Example, that at the first Obfervation the Side of right.Shadows is cut in the Point 30, and the Instrument being removed 20 Toifes to a second Station, the Side of right Shadows is cut in the Point 70 -, then note the Pofition of the Thread in these two Sta- tions, by drawing a Line upon the Lattice with a Pencil, from the Center to the aforsaid Point 30, and another to the Point 70. Seek between these two Lines a Portion of a Parallel, which may have as many Parts as the Distance measured has Toifes, which in this Example must be 20: then the said Parallel being continued, will meet the Number 50, counting from the Center, whence the Height of the Tower observed, will be 50 Toifes. You will likewise by the fame means find that the Distance from the Base of the Tower, to the first Station, is 15 Toifes, because there is 15 Parts contained upon the Parallel between the Number 50, and the Line drawn with the Pencil to the Number 30.

Inftead of drawing Lines with a Pencil, two Threads faftened to the Center will do, one of which may be the Thread of the Plummet.

CASE II. When the Side of verfed Shadows is cut at both Stations by the Thread.

Suppose, in the first Station, that the Thread cuts the Side of verfed Shadows in the Point 80, and that being removed 15 Toifes to another Station, the Thread falls upon the Number 50 on the fame Side. Mark with a Pencil upon the Lattice, the two different Pofitions of the Thread in both Stations, and find between these two Lines, a Portion of a Parallel contain- ing as many Parts as the Distance measured contains Toifes, which, in this Example, is 15 Toifes : to these 1 5 Parts add 25, which is the Continuation of the fame Parallel to the Side of the Square next to the Center, and the Sum makes 40 ; whence the Distance of the Tower, from the second Station, is 40 Toifes : and to find it's Height, feek the Number 40 upon the Side of the Square next the Center, and count from that Number to the first Line drawn on the Lattice with the Pencil, the Parts of the Parallel, which in this Example will be found 20 •, therefore the Height of the Tower is 20 Toifes, by always adding the Height of the Quadrant.

CASE III. If in one Station the Thread falls upon the Diagonal of the Square, and in the other it cuts the Side of right Shadows, you must proceed in the fame manner as when the Thread at both Stations falls upon the Side of right Shadows.

But when the Thread falls along the Diagonal in one Station, and upon the Side of verfed Shadows in the other, you must proceed in the fame manner, as when the Thread cuts, at both Stations) the Side of verfed Shadows.

The Reason of all this is, because there is always made upon the Lattice a little Triangle similar to a great one, made upon the Ground, altho' diverfiy pofited. The Line made by the Thread and Plummet always reprefents the Vifual Ray ; the two other Sides of the little Triangle, which make a right Angle, reprefent the Height of the Tower and it's Distance ; and when the Thread cuts the Side of right Shadows, the Height is reprefented by the Di- vifions of the Sides of the Lattice, which is perpendicular to the Side of the Quadrat ; but when the Thread cuts the Side of verfed Shadows, the Distance is reprefented by the Divi- fions of the Side distant from the Center, and the Height by the Perpendicular anfwering to the Number of Divisions of the fame Side.

USE IV. To find the Depth of a Ditch or Well.

The Breadth of the Ditch (or Well) must first be measured, and afterwards you must place the Quadrant upon the Brink, and look thro' the two Sights, 'till you fee the opposite Point, where the Surface of the Water touches the Side of the Ditch •, then the Thread will cut the Parallel, anfwering to the Feet or Toifes of the Ditch's Breadth •, and that Perpendicular, at which the Parallel ends, will determine the Depth, from which must be.lubftracted the Height of the Instrument above the Brink of the Ditch.

Place the Quadrat so that it's Plane may be at right Angles with the Plane of the Horizon, and one of it's Sides parallel thereto, which will be done when the Plummet, freely -hanging, falls along the other Side of the Quadrant.

In this Situation the two fixed Sights are of no Use, unlefs they are used to obferve the Distance between two Stars, and then the Quadrant mud be inclined, by directing the im- moveable Sights towards one Star, and the moveable ones towards the other-, and the Num- ber of Degrees, comprehended between them, will be the Distance of the Stars in Degrees.

If it is used to obferve an Height, the Center of the Instrument mud be above the Eye; but if a Depth is to be observed, the Eye must be above the Center of the Instrument.

U S E I. To take an Height , as that of a Tower •, wbofe Base is acceffible.

Having placed the Quadrant, as already fhewn, turn the Index.; so that you may fee the Top of the Tower thro' the two Sights •, and the Arc of the Limb of the Quadrant, between that Side of it parallel to the Horizon, and the Index, will be the Height of the Tower in Decrees. If afterwards the Distance from the Foot of the Tower, to the Place where the In- ftrument ftands, be exactly measured, there will be three things given in the Triangle to be measured •, namely, the Base, and the two Angles made at it's Ends, one of which will be always a right Angle, because the Tower is supposed to be built upright, and the other the An^le before observed ; whence the other Sides of the Triangle may be found by the Rules of rioht-lined Trigonometry, or else without Calculation, by drawing a little Triangle similar to the great one, whose Base is the Ground, and Perpendicular the Height of the Tower ; or otnerwile by the Geometrick Square, in obferving, that in that Pofition of the Quadrant, the Side of right Shadows ought always to be parallel to the Horizon, and the Side of verfed Shadows perpendicular thereto.

USE II. To find the Height of a Tower ', whether acccffible or inacceffible^ by means of the Quadrat.

In the aforementioned Pofition of the Quadrant, there are always formed, in the Quadrat, little similar Triangles, whose homologous Sides are parallel and similarly pofited to those of the great ones formed upon the Ground -, by which means the Operations are rendered more fimple and eafy than in the other Situation of the Quadrant •, as we come now to explain, by making three different Suppofitions, according to the different Cafes that may happen.

CASE I. Let us suppose, for Example, that having observed the Height of a Tower, whose tiafe is accefilble, thro' the Sights of the Index, the Index cuts the Side of right Sha- dows in the Point 40, and the Distance to the Base of the Tower is 20 Toifes ; feek among the Parallels to the Horizon, from that which paries thro' the Center to the Index, the Paral- lel of 20 (because 20 Toifes is the Distance supposed), and you will find that it terminates at the Number 50, on the perpendicular Side of the Square, reckoning from the Center ; whence the Height of the Tower is 50 Toifes above the Center of the Instrument.

CASE If. Suppose, in another Obfervation, that the Index cuts the Side of verfed Sha- dows in the Point 60, and the Distance measured is 35 Toifes ; count from the Center of the Quadrant upon the Side parallel to the Horizon 35, and from this Point, reckoning the Parts of the Perpendicular, to the Interferon of the Index, and you will find 21 ; whence the Height of the Tower is 2 1 Toifes.

CASE III. Lajlly, Suppose the Base of the Tower to be inacceflible, and that there must be made two Stations (as we have said before)-, the Height of it may be found without any Diftinction of right or verfed Shadows : for having measured the Distance between the two Stations, and drawn two Lines in the Quadrat, fhewing the Situation of the Index in those two Stations, find between those two Lines a Portion of a Parallel to the Horizon, which shall have as many Parts, as the Distance measured contains Toifes: then if you continue that to the perpendicular Side of the Square distant from the Center, you will there find a Number expreffing tne Height of the Tower, and the Continuation of that Parallel to this Number, will fhew the Distance to the Base of the Tower.

Note, In this Situation of the Quadrant, horizontal Distances are always reprefented in the Quadrat by Lines parallel to the Horizon, and Heights are always reprefented by Lines per- pendicular to the Horizon, which renders (as we have already said) Operations more eafy.

It does not happen so in that other vertical Pofition of the Quadrant, when the fixed Sights are used -, for if in obferving the Height of an inacceflible Tower, the Thread of the Plummet in one Station falls upon the Side of right Shadows, and in the other Station, on the Side of verfed Shadows, the Distance between the two Lines drawn with a Pencil on the Lattice, croffes the Squares of the Lattice by their Diagonals, which will not have common Meafures with the Sides ; whence it cannot be used to find the Height of the proposed Tower.

USE of the Quadrant in measuring of Horizontal Distances.

Altho' a Quadrant is not so proper to measure horizontal Distances, as a Semi-circle or whole Circle, because by it obtuse Angles cannot well be taken, yet we shall here give fome Uses of it by means of the Quadrat. Place the Quadrant upon it's Foot nighly parallel to the Horizon -, for there is no Neceflity of it's Plane being perfectly level, because fometimes it must be inclined to perceive Objects thro' the Sights.

Then put the Foot of the Instrument in the Line to be measured, and make two Obfervations in the following manner, not using the Plummet, but the four Sights.

Staffs in the Line ACD, and the Quadrant in the Point A, in such manner that the two fixed Sights may be in the Line A C, and the Point B may be feen thro' the two moveable Sights, placed at right Angles with the Line A C : then remove the Quadrant, planting a Staff in it's place, and measure from A towards C, any Length ; as, for Example, 18 Toifes: at the End of which, having placed the Instrument, so that the two fixed Sights may be in the Line A C, move the Index 'till you fee the Point B thro' it's Sights, and you will have up- on the Lattice a little Triangle, similar to the great one made upon the Ground •, therefore feek amongft the Parallels cue by the Index, that which contains as many Parts as the Distance measured does Toifes; that is, in this Example, iS, which will terminate on the Side of the Quadrant, at a Number containing as many Parts as there are Toifes in the Line A B pro- pofed to be measured.

The Distance A B may yet otherwise be found, whether perpendicular or not, without making a Station at right Angles with the Point A.

Suppose, for Example, that the first Station is made in the Point C, and the second in the Point D •, draw upon the Lattice two right Lines with a Pencil, or otherwise, (hewing the two different Pofitions of the Index in both the Stations ; and having measured the Distance of the Points C and D, which suppose 20 Toifes, feek between the two Lines drawn with a Pencil, a Portion of a Parallel which is 20 Parts, and that will correfpond, upon the Semi- diameter of the Geometrick Quadrat, to a Number, which, reckoned from the Center, will contain as many Parts as the right Line A B does Toifes.

You will likewise find the Lengths of the Distances C B and DB, by the Divisions of the Index •, for there is upon the Lattice a little oblique-angled Triangle similar to the great one C D B upon the Ground.

CHAP. VI.

Of the ConJlruBion and Uses of the Semi-Circle,

Fig. I. Sc K. r I ^ H E S E Instruments which are also called Graphometers, are made of beaten or caft j^ Brass, from 7 Inches Diameter to 15 ; the Divisions of them are made in the fame manner as those of the Theodolite and Quadrant, before explained. The fimpleft of these Instruments, is that of Fig. K ; at the Ends of it's Diameter, and in little square Holes made upon the fiducial Line, there is adjufted two fixed Sights, fattened with Nuts underneath, and upon it's Center there is a moveable Index furnifhed with two other Sights, made in the fame manner as those before-mentioned for the Theodolite, and which is fattened with a Screw. There is a Compass placed in the Middle of it's Surface, for finding the North Sides of Planes. There is also fixed underneath to it's Center, a Ball and Socket, like that mentioned in the Construction of the Theodolite, and for the fame Use.

Note, Thefe Instruments ought to be well ftraightned with hammering; then they must be fafhioned with a rough File, and afterwards fmoothed With aBaftard-File, and a fine one. "When they are filed enough, you must fee whether they are not bent in filing ; if they are, they ought to be well ftraightned upon a Stone, or very plain Piece of Marble ; then they must be rubbed over with Pumice-Stone and Water, to take away the Tracts of the File. To polifh Semi-Circles well, as also any other Instruments, you must use German-Slate Stone, and very fine Charcoal, so that it does not fcratch the Work : afterwards, to brighten them, you must lay a little Tripoli, tempered in Oil, upon a Piece of Shamoy, and rub it over them.

The Semi-Circle I, carries Telescopes for feeing Objects at a good Distance, and has the Degrees of it's Limb divided into Minutes, by right-lined or curved Diagonals, as in the Quadrant before-mentioned.

There is one Telescope placed underneath along the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, whose Ends are B B ; and another Telescope adjufted to the Index of the Semi-Circle. When the fiducial Line cuts the Middle of the Index, the Telescope faftened to it must be a little fhorter than the Index, to the End that the Degrees cut by the fiducial Line may be feen ; but the beft way is for the Telescopes to be of equal Length, and then the fiducial Line must be drawn from the End C, passing thro' the Center of the Semi-Circle, and terminating in the opposite End D. The two Ends of the Index are cut so as to agree with the Degrees upon the Limb, as may be feen at the places C F, G D, in such manner that the Line C F E G D, may be the fiducial Line of the Semi-Circle.

Note, The Degrees on this Semi-Circle do not begin and end at the Diameter, as'in others* but at the Lines C F, G D, when the Telescopes are so placed over each other, that the vi- fual Rays agree. To make which, the little Frame carrying the crofs flairs, must be moved backwards or forwards by means^ of Screws. The Breadth from the Middle of the Telefcope, to the Points F, G, is commonly about 5 Degrees •, and this is the Reason why the Divisions begin further from the Diameter than they end, as may be feen per Fioure.

Thcfe Tclefcopes have two or four Glasses, and have a very fine Hair ltraincd in the Focus of the Object-Glass, ferving for a Sight.

Tclefcopes with four Glasses fhew Objects in their true Situation, but those with two Glasses invert them •, so that that which is on the right Hand appears on the left, and that which is above appears below : but this does not at all hinder the Truth of Operations, because they always give the Point of Direction.

Thefe Telescopes are made with Brass Tubes foldered, and turned in a Cylindrick Form 4 as may be feen by the Figure L, which reprefents a Telescope taken to pieces ; the Eye- Glass, being that to which the Eye is applied to look at Objects, is at the End 1. It is put in another little Tube apart (likewise marked 1) which is drawn out, or flid into the Te- lefcope, according to different Sights. This little Tube also fometimes carries the Hair in the Focus of "the Glass, ferving as a Sight •, but it is better for the Hair to be faftened to a little Piece of Brass ,feen apart) on which there is very exactly drawn a square Tract 2, upon which the Hairs are placed. The said Piece is placed in a Groove made in a little Brass Frame, foldered to the Tube of the Telescope at the Place 2 ; the small Screw 5 is to move forwards or backwards, the little Piece carrying the Hairs •, the Object-Glass is placed at the other End of the Telescope, next to the Object to be feen. It is also placed in the little Tube 3, which being put into the Tube of the Telescope, must be binded pretty much by it, that it may not eafily change it.'s Place when the Telescope is adjufted. The Glasses are convex, which renders their Middle thicker than their Edges ; but the Eye-Glass must have more Convexity than the Object-Glass, to the end that Objects may appear greater than by the naked Eye.

The Focus of a Convex Glass is that Place where the Rays, coming from a luminous or coloured Object, unite, after having passed thro' the Glass ; whence the Picture of Objects, opposite to the Glass, are there very diftinctly reprefented. For example, the Point R, at the End of the Cone of the Figure FT, is the Focus of the Glass S, because it is the Point where the Rays, entering at the other End N of the Tube, unite, after having passed thro' the Glass S.

The Telescopes most in Use (for Semi-Circles) are those with two Glasses, which are Co placed, that their Foci are common, and unite in the fame Point in the Tube of the Tele- fcope, in which Point the Hairs are placed ; if the focal Length of the Object-Glass is (even or eight times greater than that of the Eye-Glass, the Object will appear seven or eight times greater than when the Foci of the two Glasses are equal.

The Focus of the Eye-Glass being common with that of the Object-Glass, the coloured Rays, which falling upon the Surface of the Object-Glass, and uniting in the Focus of the Glass, afterwards continue their way diverging to the Eye-Glass, and pass thro' it; so that placing the Eye behind it, Objects may be perceived, whose Pictures are reprefented in the Focus : for it is the Object that fends forth it's Species to the Eye, as may be yet very manifest* ]y proved by the loliowing Experiment.

Darken a Room, by fhutting the Window-Shutters, and make a round Hole in fome Shutter, whose Window is expofed to a Place on which the Sun fhines : in which Hole place a Convex Glass, and also. a white Piece of Paper or Sheet in the Room, opposite to the Hole, and at the Glass's focal Distance from it ; then a very diftinct Reprefentation of all outward Objects, opposite to the Hole in the Shutter, will be painted upon the Paper in the Room in an inverted Situation ; and this Picture is made by Rays of Light coming from the Objects without. The focal Distance of the Glass may be found, by moving the Paper backwards and lorwards, 'till the Reprefentation of the Objects are diftinctly perceived.

There is a Ball and Socket belonging to this Semi-Circle, which, being well made, in the aforsaid manner, is the most perfect that can be made.

The Instrument M is a Protractor about 8 or 10 Inches Diameter, with it's moveable Index j we make them fometimes as large as Graphometers, and use them both in taking Angles in the Field to a Minute, and also plotting them upon Paper.

The Index of this Protractor turns about a circular Cavity, in the Middle of which is a little Point, fhewing the Center of the Protractor. The Divisions of the Limb of this Pro- tractor are made in the fame manner as those on the Limb of the Semi-Circle, and by the Me- thod before explained.

USEI. To take the Plot of a proposed Field, asABCDE; plant a Staff very up- F i g . 6. right, at each Angle of the Field, and measure exactly, with a Toife, one of it's Sides, as A B, which suppose 50 Toifcs, 2 Feet ; then make a Memorial, on which draw a Figure fomething like the Field proposed : This being done, place the Semi-Circle, with it's Foot, in the Place of the Staff A •, so that looking thro' the fixed Sights of the Diameter, you may fee the Staff B. Afterwards, the Semi-Circle remaining fixed in this Pofition, turn the Index, so that you may fee thro' the Sights the Staff C. Note the Angle made by the fiducial Line with the Side A B, and writedown, in your Memorial, the Quantity of the Angle B A C j afterwards turn the Index fo, that you may fee the Staff D thro' the Sights, and write down in your Memorial the Quantity of the Angle B AD : Again, turn the Index so that you may fee thro' the Sights the Staff E, and fet down the Quantity of the Angle BAE; but every time you look thro' the Sights, Care muff be taken that the Staff B is in a right Line with the Sights of the Diameter.

This being done, remove the Semi-Circle with it's Foot, and having replanted the Staffs, place the Semi-Circle, with it's Foot, in the Place of the Staff B, in such manner, that by looking thro' the fixed Sights of the Diameter* you may fee the Staff A -, and the Semi-circle remaining fixed in this Situation, turn, as you have already done, the Index so that you may fucceffively fee the Staffs C, D, E, and write down in the Memorial the Quantities of the Angles ABC, A B D, ABE.

Finally t Plot the Field exactly with a Semi-Circle or Protra&or, by laying down all the Angles, whose Quantities are marked at the Ends of the Line A B, from whence may be drawn as many right Lines, and from their Interfedlions other Lines, which will form the Plot of the Field proposed. The Lengths of all those Sides which have not been measured, may be found by a Scale of equal Parts, of which the Line A B is 50 4» and the Area of the Field may be found by finding the Area of all the Triangles it may be reduced into.

Note, It is.proper to measure one of the longeft Sides of the Field, for using it as a com- mon Base, and making at both it's Ends all the Obfervations neceiTary for there forming the Angles of the Triangles required to be made ; for if one of the fliorteft Lines be taken for a common Base to all the Triangles, the Angles formed by the Interfe&ions of the vifual Rays in looking at the Staffs, will be too acute, and so their Interjections very uncertain.

The Meridian Line of Plans may be known by help of the Compass, whose Meridian is generally parallel to the Diameter of the Semi-Circle : for since the common Base of all the Triangles observed, is parallel to the said Diameter, you need but note the Angle which it makes with the Needle of the Compass, and this may be eafily done by directing the fiducial Line parallel to the Needle ; after which you may draw upon the Plot a little Card in it's true Pofition.

their Distance ferving as a Base, place the Semi-Circle at one of them, as D, and the Staff in the other, as in the Point E, and turn it fo, that thro' the fixed Sights of it's Diameter, or thro' the Telescope, you may efpy the Staff E : then move the Index fo, that thro' it's Sights you may fee the Steeple A •, and the Degrees of the Semi-Circle between the Diameter and the Index, will give the Quantity of the Angle B D E, being in this Example 3 Deg. which note in your Memorial. Again •, turn the Index 'till you fee the Tower C thro' the Sights or Telescope, always keeping the Diameter in the Line D E ; then the Degrees between the Diameter and Index, will fhew the Quantity of the Angle CDE, 123 Deg. which hkewife note in the Memorial. Now having removed the Semi-Circle from the Station D, and placed a Staff in it's Place, measure the Distance from the Staff D to the Staff E, which suppose 32 Toifes, writing it in the Memorial : then put the Semi-Circle in the Place of the Staff E, so that the fixed Sights of the Diameter, or Telescope, may be in the Line ED; and turn the Index, that the Tower C may be feen thro' it's Sights, then the Degrees con- tained between the Diameter, and the Index, will give the Angle CE D, which in this Ex- ample is 26 Degrees. Finally, Turn the Index 'till you fee the Steeple A thro' the Sights, and the Angle A ED will be 125 Degrees, which fet down in the Memorial, and by help of a Scale and Protractor, the Distance A C may be known.

To folve the fame Problem trigonometrically ; first, We have found by Obfervation in the Triangle DAE, that the Angle A DE is 32 Degrees, and the Angle D E A 125 Degrees, whence the Angle DAE is 23 Degrees (because the three Angles of any right-lined Trian- gle, are equal to 2 right Angles), and to find the Side A E, make this Analogy : As the Sine of 23 Degrees is to 32 Toifes, So is the Sine of 32 Degrees to the Line AE, about 43 Toifes. Likewise you will find by Obfervation in the Triangle CDE, that the Angle C D E is 26 Degrees, and the Angle E D C 123 Degrees, whence the Angle D C E is 31 Degrees ; and to find the Side C E, make this second Analogy : As the Sine of 31 Degrees is to 32 Toifes, So is the Sine of 123 Degrees, or it's Complement $j, which is the fame, to C E 52 Toifes. Now to find the Distance C A, examine the Triangle C A E, whose two Sides C E, A E, with the included Angle A E C of 99 Degrees, are known, and confequently the Sum of the two unknown Angles are equal to 81 Degrees ; and to find either of them, make again this Analogy : As the Sum of the two known Sides 95 Toifes, is to their Difference 9, So is the Tangent of 40 Deg. 30 Min. half the Sum of the opposite Angles, to the Tangent of half their Distance, which anfwers to 4 Deg. 37 Min. and being added to 40 Deg. 30 Min. will give the greateft of the unknown Angles C AE, 45 Deg. 7 Min. and confequently the other Angle A CE, will be -$$ Deg. 53 Min. Laftly, to find the Length C A, fay, As the Sine of 35 Deg. $■$ Min. is to 43 Toifes, So is the Sine of ^ Deg. to the Distance A C, 72 Toifes, 2 Feet.

USE III. To find the Height of the Tower AB, whose Base cannot be approached be- caufe of a Rivulet parting by it's Foot ; chufe two Stations fomewhere upon level Ground, as in C and D, and place the Semi-Circle vertically in the Point D, so that it's Diameter may Fig. 8. be parallel to the Horizon, which you may do by means of a Thread and Plummet, hung on the Top of a Perpendicular drawn on the backfide of the Semi-Circle : then turn the Index, in order to fee the Top of the Tower B thro' the Sights, and take the Quantity of the Angle B D A, which suppose 42 Degrees, noting it down in your Memorial. Now having removed the Semi-Circle, and placed it at the other Station C, measure the Distance DC, which suppose 12 Toifes •, and after having adjufted the Semi-Circle, so that it's Dia- meter may be parallel to the Horizon, turn the Index 'till you fee the Top of the Tower B, and fet down the Quantity of the Angle PCD, which suppose 22 Degrees, in the Memo- rial ; then make a similar Figure by means of a Scale and Protractor, and the Height of the Tower A B will be found ; which may likewise be found by Calculation in the following man- ner : The Angle B D A of 42 Degrees, gives the Angle B D C of 1 38 Degrees ; and since the Angle C of 22 Degrees has been measured, the third Angle of the Triangle CBD will be 20 Degrees. Now fay, As the Sine of 20 Degrees is to 12 Toifes, So is the Sine of 22 De- crees, to the Line BD, about 13 Toifes; but B D is the Hypothenufe of the right-angled Triangle B D A, all the Angies of which are known : therefore fay by a second Rule of Three, As Radius is to about 13 Toifes, So is the Sine of 42 Degrees to the Height AB, 8 Toifes, and one Foot.

USE IV. To take the Map of a Country.

First, chufe 2 high Places, from whence a great Part of the Country may be feen, which Fig. 9* let be so remote from each other, as that their Distance may ferve as a common Base to fe- veral Triangles that muff be observed for making of the Map •, then measure with a Chain the Distance of these two Places. Thefe two Places being supposed A and B, dift ant from each other 200 Toifes, place the Plane of the Semi-Circle horizontally, with it's Foot in the Point A, in such manner, that you may difcover the Point B thro' the fixed Sights or Tele- fcope: the Instrument remaining fixed in this Situation, turn the Index, and fuccetTively difco- ver Towers, Steeples, Mills, Trees, and other remarkable Things defired to be placed in the Map: examine the Angles which every of them make with the common Base, and fet them down together with their proper Names in the Memorial : As, for Example, the Angle B A I 14 Degrees, B A G 47, B A H 53, B A F 68, B A E 83, B A D 107 ; and, lastly, the An- gle B A C 130 Degrees: which being done, and the Distance of the two Stations AB fet down, place the Semi-Circle in the Point B, for a second Station.

The Instrument being so placed that it's Diameter may be in the Line B A, turn the Index, and obferve the Angles made by the Objects before feen from the Point A ; as for Example, the Angle A B C 20 Degrees, ABF 37, A B D 44, A BE 56, ABG 83, ABH 96, and the Angle A B I 133 Degrees, which note down in the Memorial.

If any Object viewed from the Point A, cannot be feen from the Point B, the Base must be changed, and another Point fought, from whence it may be difcovered ; for it is abfo- lutely neceffary for the fame Object to be feen at both Stations, because it's Pofition cannot be had but by the Interferon of two Lines drawn from the Ends of the Base, with which they form a Triangle.

Note., The Base must be pretty long, in proportion to the Triangles for which it ferves, and moreover very ftraight and level.

To make the Map, reduce all those Triangles observed, to their juft Proportion, by means of a Scale and Protractor, in the manner as we have already given Directions, in the Use of the Theodolite.

Of the ConftriiElion and Use of the Compass.

TH I S Instrument is made of Brass, Ivory, Wood, or any other solid Matter, from 2 to Fig. O. 6 Inches in Diameter, being in figure of a Parallelopipedon, in the Middle of which is a round Box, at the Bottom of which is defcribed a Card (of which more in the Conftruction of the Sea-Compass) whose Circumference is divided into 360 Degrees. In the Center of this Card is fixed a well -pointed Brass or Steel Pivot, whose Use is to carry the touched Needle placed upon it, in Equilibria, so that it may freely turn. This Box is covered with a round Glass, for hindring left the Air fhould any wife agitate the Needle.

One of the Ends ot the Needle always turns towards the North Part of the World, but not exactly, it declining therefrom, and the other towards the South.

According to Obftrvations made in Oflober, in the Year i?i^, in the Royal Obfervatory, 'the Needle declined 2 Deg. 5 Min. Westwardly.

Needles are made of Pieces of Steel, the Length of the Diameter of the Box, having little Brass Caps foldered to their Middle, hollowed into a conical Figure fo, that the Needle being put upon the Pivot, may move very freely upon it, and not Tall off* they are nicely filed into different Figures, those which are large being like a Dart* and small ones have Rings to- wards one End, for knowing that End which refpects the North, as may be feen in the little Figures nigh the Compass.

To touch a Needle well, having first got a good Stone, begin your Touch near the Mid- dle of the Needle, and prefling it pretty hard hard upon the Pole of the Stone, draw it flowly along to the End of the Needle, and lifting your Hand a good Distance from the Stone, while you put the Needle forward again, begin a second Touch in the fame manner, and after that a third, which is enough, only take Care not to rub the Needle to and fro on the Stone, whereby the backward Rubs take away what Virtue the forward ones gave ; but lift it out of the Sphere of the Stone's Virtue, when you carry it forward again to begin a new Touch.

This admirable Property, by help of which great Sea- Voyages were first undertaken, and vafl Nations both in the East and West difcovered, was not known in Europe 'till about the Year 1260.

A Man by means of this Instrument, and a Map, may likewise go to any proposed Place, at Land, without enquiring of any body the way •, for he need but fet the Center of the Compass, upon the Place of Departure, on the Map, and afterwards caufe the Needle to agree with the Meridian of this Place upon the Map : then if he notes the Angle that the Line leading to the Place makes with the Meridian, he need but in travelling keep that An- gle with the Meridian, and that will direct him to the Place dtfired.

This Instrument is also very useful to People working in Quarries, and Mines under Ground ; for having noted upon the Ground the Point diredly over that you have a mind to go to, you must place the Compass at the Entrance into the Quarry or Mine, and obferve the Angle made by the Needle with the Line of Direction : then when you are under Ground, you must make a Trench, making an Angle with the Needle equal to the aforsaid Angle ; by means of which you may come to the proposed Place under Ground. There are several other Uses of this Instrument, the principal of which we are now going to fpeak.

U S E I. To take the Declination of a Wall with the Compass.

You must remember that there are 4 Points, called Cardinal ones, viz. North, South, East, and West, dividing the Horizon into 4 equal Parts, and when one of these Points are found, all the others may likewise : for if you have North before you, South will be behind, East on the right-hand, and West on the left.

A Wall built upon a Line tending from North to South, will be in the Plane of the Meri- dian ; so that one Side thereof will face the East, and the other the West.

Another Wall, at right Angles with the former, that is, one built upon the Line of East and West, will be parallel to the Prime Vertical, and will not decline at all, and one of it's Sides will, be directly South, and the other North. Fig. io. But if a Wall is supposed to be built upon the Line DE, it is said to decline as many De-

grees as is contained in the Arc F ; therefore if, for Example, that Arc be 40 Degrees, the Side of the Wall facing towards the South, declines from the South towards the East 40 Degrees, and the opposite Side of the Wall will decline from the North towards the West 40 Degrees : so that the Declination of a Wall, is no more than the Angle made by the Wall and the Prime Vertical. Another Wall parallel to the Line G H, will decline as many De- grees as is contained in the Arc C; therefore if that Arc be 30 Degrees, the Side of the Wall refpecting the South, will decline 30 Degrees from the South towards the West, and the other Side will decline 30 Degrees from the North to the East.

In all Operations made with a Compass, you must take care of bringing it nigh Iron or Steel, and that there be none concealed j for Iron or Steel entirely changes the Direction of the Needle.

I suppose here that the Pivot, upon which the Cap of the Needle is put, is in the Center of a Circle divided into 360 Degrees, or four Nineties, whose first Degree begins from the Meridian Line, and also that the Compass be square, as that which is reprefented in the Figure.

Apply the Side of the Compass where the North is marked, to the Side of the Wall j then the Number of Degrees over which the Needle fixes, will be the Wail's Declination, and on that Side. If, for Example, the North Point of the Needle tends towards the Wall, it is a fign that that Side of the Wall may be fhone on by the Sun at Noon •, and if the Needle fixes over 30 Degrees, counting from the North towards the East, the Declination is so many Degrees from South towards the East. If it fixes over 30 Degrees from the North towards the West, the Declination of the Needle will be so many Degrees from the South towards the West.

But since the Declination of the Needle is at Paris 12 Deg. 15 Min. N. W. for correcting that Defect, 12 Deg. 15 Min. must always be added to the Degrees fhown by the Needle, when the Declination of the Wall is towards the East ; and, on the contrary, when the Decli- nation is towards the West, the Declination of the Needle must be fubftracted.

As supposing, as we have already done, that the Needle fixes over the 30th Degree towards the East, the Declination of the Wall will be 42 Deg. 15 Min. from the South towards the East ; but if the Needle fixes on the West-side of the Wall, over the 30th Degree, the Decli- nation will be 17 Deg. 45 Min. from the South towards the West.

If the South Point of the Needle tends towards the Wall, it is a Sign that the South is on the other Side of the Wall, and confequently that Side of the Wall, whose Declination is to be found, will not be fhone upon by the Sun at Noon-, whence it's Declination will be from the North towards the East: or West, according as it faces towards those Parts of the World* This will be more fully explained in the Treatife of Dialling.

USE II. To take an Angle with the Compass \

Let the Angle D A E be proposed to be measured ; apply that Side of the Compass, where Fig. 1 t . the North is marked, to one of the Lines forming the Angle, as A D : so that the Needle may freely turn upon it's Pivot, arid when it Rests, obferve what Number the North Point of the Needle ftands over \ and finding it, for Example, 80 Degrees, the Declination of the said Line will be so many Degrees. Afterwards take, in the fame manner, the Declination of the Line A E, which suppose 215 Degrees: fubftract 80 Degrees from 215 Degrees, there will remain 135, which fubftract from 180, and there will remain 45 Degrees, the Quantity of the Angle proposed to be measured.

But if the Declination of the Line A D had been, for example, but 30 Degrees, and the Line AE 265 Degrees, the Difference of those two Declinations, which would be 235 De- crees, would be too great to fubftract from 180 Degrees •, whence in this Cafe 180 Degrees must be taken from 235 Degrees, and the Remainder 55 Degrees, will be the Angle pro* pofed.

When Angles are measured with the Compass, there need not any regard be had to the Variation of the Needle, because the Variation will always be the fame in all the different Pofitions of the Needle, provided at all times there be no Iron near it : and when the Com- pass cannot be put nigh the Plane, by means of some Impediment, it is fufrkient to place it parallel, as the Figure fhews, and the Effect will be the fame.

USE III. To take the Plot of a FoRest, or Morafs.

Let it be required to take the Plot of the Morafs ABCDE, in which one may enter. Fig. 12. To make these kinds of Operations, there must be faftened two Sights to the Meridian Line of the Compass ; now plant long Staffs upright, so that they may be in Lines parallel to the Sides encompafling the Morafs, and place the Compass upon it's Foot in a horizontal Pofition : then look at two of the Staffs thro' the Sights, putting always the Eye to that which is on the South Side of the Compass ; and having drawn a Figure upon Paper fomething reprefent- ing the Plot of the Morafs, write upon the correfpondent Line the Number of Degrees which the Needle, when fixed fhews. At the fame time measure the Length of each Side of the Morafs, and fet down their Lengths upon the correfpondent Lines of your Memorial. When you have gone round the Morafs, the Degrees denoted by the Needle, will ferve to form the Angles of the Figure, and the Length of each Line will determine the Plot of the Morafs proposed.

Let us suppose, for Example, that having placed the Compass along the Side A B, or which is all one, along a Line parallel to that Side, and placing the Eye next to the South Sight of the two Sights, two Staffs fet up in that Line are efpied. If the Needle fixes on the 30th Degree towards the East, fet down the Number 30 upon the Line A B in the Memorial, and also 50 Toifes, the Length of the Side AB : afterwards fet the Compass, with it's Foot, along the Side B C, or in the Direction of the Staffs, putting always the Eye next the South Sight. If the Needle fixes on the 100th Degree, I write that Number on the Line B C, and at the fame time 70 Toifes, the Length of the Side B C : doing thus quite round the Mo- rafs, you may fet down upon each correfpondent Line of the Memorial, the Numbers of De- grees and Toifes ; by means of which, the Plot may be drawn in the following manner, by help of a Scale and Protractor.

Set down, one after the other, all the Angles observed with the Compass, and fubftrafl the leafi from it's next greater, as in this Table.

Draw the Indefinite Line A B, of 50 equal Parts, reprefenting the 50 Toifes measured ; make the exterior Angle at the Point B 70 Degrees, and draw the indefinite Line B C, on which lay off 70 Toifes from B to C. Make at the Point C an exterior Angle of 30 Degrees, and draw the indefinite Line CD, whose Length let be 65 Toifes, conformable to the Length measured. Make likewise at the Point D an exterior Angle of no Degrees, and draw the Line DE of 70 Toifes. Laftly, Make an exterior Angle of 60 Degrees at the Point E, draw the Line A E of 94 Toifes, and the Plot will be compleated.

Note, All the Angles of the Figure taken together, ought to make twice as many right Angles, wanting 2, as the Figure has Sides : As, for Example, the Figure of this Use, hav- ing 5 Sides, all the Angles added together make 540 Degrees, or 6 times 90, which may ferve to prove Operations.

This Manner of taking Plots is expeditious enough, but it is very difficult to make Ope- rations exael with a Compass, because there may be Iron concealed nigh the Places whereat a body is obliged to place the Instrument.

CHAP. VIII.

The Uses of the aforsaid Instruments^ applied to the Fortification of Places.

Plate 13. r^Ortification is the Art of putting a Place into such a State, that a small Body of Troops fj therein may advantageoufly refill a confiderable Army.

The Maxims ferving as a Foundation to the Art of Fortification, are certain general Rules cflablifhed by Engineers, founded upon Reason and Experience.

The chief Engineer having examined the Extent and Situation of the Place to'be fortified, communicates hisDesign in a Plane and Profil, as may be ken in Plate 13. to which he com- monly adds aDiscourse, orderly explaining the Materials employed by the Undertakers: and having fearched the Ground in several Parts of the Place propoled, makes a Computation of each Toife of Work, by means of which the Engineer may nighly eftimate the Charge of the whole Work, the Number of Workmen necefiary to perfect it, and alio the Time it will be done in.

The Plane of a Fortification reprefents, by several Lines drawn horizontally, the Inclofure of a Place.

This Design contains several Lines drawn parallel to one another ; but the fir 11 and princi- pal Track, which ought to be marked by a Line more apparent than the others, reprefents the chief Inclofure of the Body of the Place between the Rampart and the Ditch ; so that by the Plan and it's Scale, the Lengths and Breadths of all the Works compofing the Fortification may be known. (Fig. 1.)

The Profil reprefents the principal Tracks appearing upon a plane Surface vertically cutting and feparating all the Works thro' the Middle. There is commonly a larger Scale to draw it, than to draw a Plan, for better distinguishing their Breadths, Heights, or Depths (as ap- pears in Fig. 3.).

The Names of the chief Lines, and principal Angles, forming the Plane.

Fig. 1. The Line A B, is called the exterior Side of the Polygon, and L M the interior Side

thereof.

L G the Demi-gorge of the Baltion, of which E G is the Flank, A E the Face, and A L the Capital.

G H is the Courtain, and A H the Line of Defence Razant.

The Figure ALGE reprefents a Demi-Baftion.

The Angle A N B is the Angle of the Center.

The Angle K AB is the Angle of the Polygon.

The Angle I AE, made by the two Faces, is the flanquant Angle, or Angle of the Baflion.

The Angle AEG made by the Face and the Flank, is called the Angle of the Shoulder.

The Angle E G H, made by the Flank and the Courtain, is called the Angle of the Flank.

The Angle EGB, made by the Flank and the Line of Defence, is called the interior flan- quant Angle.

The Angle EDF, made by the two Razant Lines interfering one another towards the Mid- dle of the Courtain, is called the exterior flanquant Angle, or Angle of the Tcnaille.

The Angle E H G, made by the Courtain and Line of Defence Razant, is called the di- minifhed Angle, which is always equal to that made by the Face of the Baflion and the Base, or exterior Side.

Fundamental Maxims of Fortification.

The principal Maxims may be reduced to fix.

I. Every Side round about a Place, mull be flanked or defended with Flanks -, for if there be any Side about a Place not feen or defended by the Befieged, the Enemy may there lodge themfelves, and become Mailers of the Place in a fhort time.

It follows from this Maxim, that the flanquant Angle, or the Angle made by the Faces of the Baftion, being too acute, is defective, because it's Point may eafily be blunted or broken by the Cannon of the Befiegers, and afterwards Miners may there work fafe in widening of the Breach.

It is also a like Fault to round the Points of Baftions, for the fame Reason.

II. The Force, as much as poflible, must be equally diftributed every where, for if there be any Side weaker than the Rest, that will be it which the Enemy will attack ; therefore if from the Nature of the Ground, one Side be weaker than the others, ibme Work must be there added to augment it's Force, in multiplying it's Defence.

III. The flanquant Parts must be no further remote from those which flank them, than a Mulquet-fhot will do Execution ; therefore the Line of Defence, or the Distance from the Point of a Baftion to it's neighbouring Baftions, ought not much to exceed 125 Toifes, which js the Distance that a Mufquet, well charged, will do Execution.

IV. The Flanks of Baftions must be large enough to contain at least 30 Soldiers in Front* and a or 5 Pieces of Cannon mounted on their Carriages, in order to defend well the Face of the Baftion attacked by the Enemy •, and since the principal Defence arifes from Flanks, it is more proper for them to be perpendicular to the Line of Defence, than to have any other Situation. This Method was affigned by Count Pagan, and has been followed by the ableft Engineers since his Time, and particularly by Monfieur Vauban, who, by his Angular Services, merited the Efteem of all warlike Nations, and able Engineers of his Time.

V. The Fortrefs must not be commanded by any Side out of the reach of Fire-Arms, which are Mufquets and Cannon ; but, on the contrary, it ought to command all Places round about.

VI. The Works nigheft the Center, must be higheft, and command those Places more distant, so that when the Enemy endeavour to make themfelves Matters of some Outwork* they may be repulfed by those in the Body of the Place.

To draw upon Paper a fortified Plane, according to the Method of Count Pagan.

Let it be, for Example, an Hexagon : first draw the Line AB 180 Toifes, for the exte- Fig. 1. rior Side of the Hexagon, and raife the Perpendicular CD from the Point C of 30 Toifes, then draw the Lines A D H, B D G, interfering each other in the Point D, and take 55 Toifes from your Scale, to determine the Length of the Faces A E, B F : from the Point E draw the Flank E G, making a right Angle in the Point G, at the End of the Line of De- fence B G, and likewise the other Flank F H at right Angles to A H : finally, draw the Courtain G PI, and you will have one Side of the Hexagon fortified. The other Sides are fortified in the fame manner. About this Side of the Polygon thus fortified, you must draw a Ditch, reprefented by the Lines AC, C B, parallel to the Faces of the Baftions, meeting each other towards the Middle of the Courtain in the Point C. This Ditch ought to be 20 Toifes in Breadth, and 3 Toifes deep. The Ground taken out in making of the Ditch, ferves to form the Kainpart with it's Parapet, and the Glacis of the Covered Way, preferving the fineft for the Parapet of the Body of the Place, and the Covered Way -, for if the Ground be ftony, Cannon-Balis, coming from the Befiegers against Parapets made with it, will make the Stones fly about, and annoy the Soldiers defending the Body of the Place. On the contrary, when the Ground is fine, the Bullets will but make Holes, and enter therein, provided Parapets have Breadth enough to deaden them : by Experience it is found, that Parapets must confift of well-rammed Earth at least 20 Foot thick, to be Proof against Cannon.

The Parapet is made upon the Rampart 24 Feet broad, containing the Banqu tte, or little Bank, made parallel to the Faces, Flanks, and Courtains, forming the Inclofure of the Place.

The Base of the Rampart is 15 Toifes broad, and is made parallel to the Courtains only, to the End that the Baftions may be full, and that there may be there found Earth in cafe of need, to make an Intrenchment.

When any Baftion is left open, a Mine must be made therein well arched, Bomb proof, and covered with Ground well rammed, and it must be endeavoured to be made so that the Rain-Water cannot get into it, to the End that Provifions put therein, may be preferved from time to time.

The Covered Way is made parallel without the Ditch, about 5 Toifes broad, and upon it there is a Parapet made 6 Foot high, and a Banquette, at the Foot of the said Parapet, 3 Foot broad, and a Foot and a half high, so that Soldiers may commodioufly use their Arms on the Top of the Parapet, whose Top must be floped, that is, having a Defcent or Slope going down 20 or 30 Toifes into the Country.

There must be no hollow Places about this Slope, for the Enemy to cover themfelves in ; therefore when an Engineer vifits the Fortification of a Place, it is requifite for him to examine the adjacent Parts, and have the hollow Places filled up, at least within the reach of a Muf- quet-fhot from the Covered Way ; and also to have all Places too high levelled, that so those which defend the Place, may difcover all the adjacent Parts.

which lay off from O to Q^, for denoting the Base of the Rampart * then lay off 20 Toifes from O to R, for the Breadth of the Ditch, over-against one of the Faces of the Baftion, for it is wider over-against the Courtain : lay off 5 Toifes from R to P, for the Breadth of the Covered Way ; and lastly, 20 or 30 Toifes from P to N, for the Base of the Glacis. Note* The longer the Base of the Glacis is made, the better will it be.

After having determined the Breadths or Thickneffes ; the Heights above the Level of the Country, and Depths below, must be as follows.

Take 3 Toifes from your Scale, and raife from the Points O, Q^, Perpendiculars of that Height, for raifing above the Level of the Country the Platform of the Rampart, whereof O S is the interior Talud, or Slope, going up from the City to the Platform of the Ram- part S T ; which Platform ought to be 6 or 7 Toifes broad, that so Cannon may be commo- dioufly used thereon, as also the other neceffary Munitions for the Defence of the Place.

Note, The Rifing of the Rampart ought to be very eafy over-against the Gorge of the Baftions, for Coaches to go eafily there up and down it.

The Base of the Talud O Z, is made with new-dug Earth, equal to the Height all along the Courtains -, as if the Height be 3 Toifes, the Base of the Slope must be also 3 Toifes.

But at the Entry of the Baftions, the Base must be at least twice the Height •, that is, if the Height of the Slope be 3 Toifes, the Base of it must be at least 6 or 8 Toifes, for Coaches to go up it.

When the Rampart is formed, and the Earth fufficiently raifed upon it, which cannot be done but with Time and Precaution, in well ramming it every 2 Feet in Height, and laying Fafcines to keep it together ; a Parapet is made upon the Earth of the Rampart, 6 Feet of interior Height, and 4 Feet of exterior Lleight (for the Top of the Earth to have a Declivity), to difcover any thing beyond the Ditch, and being mounted upon the Banquette, the Covered Way may be feen, and defended in cafe of Need.

The Base of the Parapet X Y, ought to be about 4 Toifes broad, to the End that the Top thereof may be at least 20 Feet broad. At the Bottom of the interior Slope of the Parapet, there is made a little Bank 3 Feet wide, and a Foot and a half high, so that the Parapet will be 4 4 Feet above the Bank, which is fufficient for Soldiers to use their Fire- Arms on the Top thereof.

Care must be taken to lay Beds of Fafcines every Foot in height, between the Earth of the Parapet •, and in order to keep the Earth of the said Parapet from crumbling, it is covered with Grafs-Turfs, cut with a Turfing-Iron, from some neighbouring Common, about 15 Inches long, and 10 broad.

Now to lay these Turfs, you must place the first Bed, or Row of them, very level all along the Distance of several Toifes, and then lay the Turfs of the second Bed fo, that the Joints of the first may be covered with them, and the Joints of the second likewne covered with the Joints of the third, &c. that so they may all make a good joining.

It is fufficient to give 2 Inches of Declivity to one Foot in height, for the interior Slope % and about 4 Inches to one Foot in height, for the exterior Slope of the Parapet. Note, There ought to be Gardiners to cut and lay the Turfs.

At the Foot of the exterior Slope of the Parapet and the Rampart, there is left a little Berm (marked Qj, about 4 Feet wide, for retaining the loofe Ground falling down from the Slope.

Q^B reprefents the inward Slope of the Ditch, which is 3 Toifes deep, and BK is the ex- terior Slope. If the Ground be brittle, they must have more Slope given them, for hindering it's falling to the Bottom of the Ditch. The Line K P reprefents the Platform of the Covered Way, which must be 5 Toifes broad. P A reprefents the Parapet of the Covered Way, with it's Banquette at the Foot thereof. The whole must be 6 Feet high, for covering those which are on the Covered Way.

The fuperior Slope of the Slope A N, ought to be made of fine Earth, the Stones in which, if there be any, must be taken away with an Iron Rake, and buried at the Foot of the Slope, so that Cannon Balls fhot from the Enemy upon the Covered Way, may enter therein, without making the broken Pieces of the Stones fly about upon the Covered Way.

To lay off the Plan of a Fortification upon the Ground.

Let, for Example, the Plan of the first Figure be proposed to be drawn upon the Ground.

Inftead of a Scale and Compasses, there must be used Staffs, the Toife, and Lines ; there- Fore, after having well examined the Ground, and confidered where the Gates and Baftions must be made, which are commonly in the Middle of the Courtains, long Staffs must first be placed, where the flanquant Angles of the Baftions are intended to be.

Now having planted a long Staff upright, in the Place fixed on for the Point of the Ba- ftion (marked A), measure very exactly, with a Toife, or Chain, 90 Toifes ; at the End of which plant a Staff (marked C) : from the Point C continue that Line 90 Toifes more ; at the End of which plant another Staff, which will be the Point of the Baftion B. In the mean time you are measuring with Chains or Lines, some Workmen mud follow, and make a little Trench from Staff to Staff, before the Lines are taken away.

After which, a Perpendicular must be drawn from the Staff C, to the Track A C B.

To draw the said Perpendicular, measure two or three Toifes from C to A, where plant a Staff; measure likewise from C towards B an equal Number of Toifes* at the End of which plant a second Staff: Take two Lines very equal, and having made Loops in the two Ends of each of them, put those Loops about each of the Staffs, and holding the two other Ends of the Lines in your Hands, ftretch them 'till they join upon the Ground, and in their point of Junction plant a third Staff. Laftly, Faften a Line tight to the Point C, and that third Staff, by which make a Track, which will be perpendicular to the Line A C B.

Meafure 30 Toifes from the Point C along the Track, at the End of which plant another Staff very upright, which will fhew the Point D of the Plan. Return to the Staff A, from which to the Staff D make a Track ; along which from the Point A measure 55 Toifes to- wards D, for the Face of the Baftion A E ; plant a Staff in the Point E, for denoting the Angle de VEpaule.

Go to the Point B, and there make the fame Operations for drawing the Face B F, and plant a Staff at the Angle de VEpaule F.

Produce B F from D, towards G •, and also A E from D towards H ; then measure with the Scale of the Plane the Lines D G, D H, and lay off their Lengths on the Ground from D to G, and from G to H, where plant Staffs : After which it will be eafy to draw the Flanks EG, FH, and the Courtain G H.

By this means you will have one Front of a fortified Place, drawn on the Ground j the others may be drawn in the fame manner by Staffs and Lines.

Note, It will not be improper to examine with a Semi-Circle, or other such Instrument 9 whether the Angles drawn upon the Ground are equal to those taken off of the Plane, and to rectify them before the Works are begun.

Care must likewise from time to time be taken, that the Tracks are followed ; for without these Precautions there will fometimes happen great Deformities.

Of the ConflruEfion of the Outworks.

The Outworks of a Fortification, are those Works made without the Ditch of a fortified Place, to cover it and augment it's Defence.

The most ordinary kinds of these Works, are the Ravelins or Half- Moons, which are formed between the two Baftions upon the Flanquant Angle of the Counterfcarp, and before the Courtain, for covering the Gates and Bridges commonly made in the Middle of the Cour- tains, as the Figures P P fhow.

The Ravelins are compofed of two Faces furniftied with one or two little Banks, and a good Parapet raifed on the Side next the Country ; and two Demigorges, without a Parapet, on the Side next to the Place, with an Entrance and Slope for mounting the great Ditch on the Platform of the Ravelin.

In each Ravelin there is built a Guard-Houfe, to fhelter the Soldiers neceffary for it's De- fence, from the Injuries of Weather •, but it is proper for the Guard-Houfe to be built in form of a Redoubt, with Battlements all round, for the Soldiers, in cafe of being attacked* to retire in, and obtain some Capitulation, before they lay down their Arms.

To draw a Ravelin before a Courtain, open your Compasses the Length of the interior Side of the Polygon, and having fixed one of the Points in one of the Ends of the Line, with the other Point defcribe an Arc without the Counterfcarp ; likewise fet one Foot of the Compasses in the other End of the interior Side, and with the other Point defcribe a second Arc, cutting the first in a Point, which will be the Point or Flanquant Angle of the Ravelin: then lay a Ruler on the aforsaid Interferon, and upon each of the Ends of the interior Side of the Po- lygon, for drawing the Faces of the Ravelin, which will terminate to the Right and Left up- on the Edge of the Counterfcarp. The two Demigorges are" drawn from the End of each Face, to the Rentrant Angle of the Counterfcarp.

But that the Flanquant Angle may not be too acute, it's Capital R S must be but about 40 Toifes-, and proceed with the Rest, as before.

Sometimes a similar Work is made before the Point of a Baftion ; and since it's Gorge is built upon the Edge of the Counterfcarp, which is commonly rounded over-against the Point of the Baftions, this Work is called a Half-Moon (because it's Gorge is in the Form of an Arc) : They are very often confounded, and the greateft Part of the Soldiers give, without diftincYion, the Name of Half-Moons to Ravelins made before the Courtains.

The Defe£t of this Work is, that it is too distant from the Flanks of the Baftions, for being fufHciently defended by them ; therefore a Half- Moon must not be made before the Point of a Baftion, unlefs at the lame time there arc made other Out- Works to theRight and Left before the adjacent Courtains, to defend it.

It is proper lor these Works to be lined with Walls, as well as the Body of the Place •, for when they are rot, the Ground must have lb great a Slope, that it will be eafy to mount the Works.

In the mean time the new-dug Earth the Works are made with, must fettle at least a Year or two before the Walls are built, to the End that the Walls may not be thrown down by it after they are built.

Conflruclion of the Hornworks.

Fig. 3. Thefe kind of Works are commonly made before the Courtains, and because the Expence

in making them is greater than the Expence in making the Ravelins, they are not made with- out abfolute neceffity ; they ferve to cover some Side of the Place, weaker than the others ; they likewise ferve to occupy an Height, which cannot be done by Perfons inclofed in the Body of the Place.

Now to draw a Hornwork, first raife the Indefinite Perpendicular 1, 2, on the Middle of the Courtain ; and to this Line draw two Parallels 3, 4, and 5, 6, from the Angles of the Shoulders. Thefe two Parallels, which are called the Wings of the Hornwork, ought to draw their defence from the Faces of the Baftions ; whence their Length ought not much to exceed 120 Toifes, counting from the Shoulders. Thro' the Ends of the Wings draw the Line 4, 6, which will be the exterior Side of the Hornwork, and is divided into two equal Parts in the Point 7, by the Perpendicular 1,2; then take half that exterior Side in your Com- passes, and lay it off upon the Sides, from 4 to 8, and from 6 to 9 ; draw the Lines 4, 9, and 6, 8, which interfering one another in the Point 10, will form the Angle of the Tenaille y that reprefents a Work called the Simple Tenaille, which is common enough made before the Courtaihs, with a little Ravelin without the Ditch, between the two Saliant Angles, and over- against the Middle of the Rentrant Angle.

But to ft rengthen this Work, there is added thereto two Demi-baftions, and a Courtain be- tween them; which is better than two fimple Rentrant Angles.

To draw the Demi-baftions, bifect the Line 4, 10, in the Point n •, and likewise the Line 10, 6, in the Point 12-, then from the Points 11 and 12, draw to the Middle of the Cour- tain of the Place, as at the Point 1, the occult Lines 121, m, by which means will be had the little Courtain 13 14 of the Hornwork, the two Flanks 11 13, 12 14, and the two Faces 114, 126.

The Sides of these Works, which are next to the Country (as the Demi-baftions, the Courtain, and the Wings of the Hornwork are), ought to be furnifhed with a good Parapet of fine Earth well rammed, 18 or 20 Feet thick, and 6 Feet high before, containing a Ban- quette^ like that in the Body of a Place ; obferving at all times, that the Parapets of the "Works nigher the Center of the Place, must be higher above the Level of the Country, than those Works more distant; to the End that when the Befiegers have made themfelves Mafters of some Outwork, the Befieged, defending the Body of the Place, feeing them altogether uncovered, may diflodge them therefrom.

Thefe Parapets ought to be fuftained by a Rampart, whose Platform having a Banquette, is three or four Toifes wide •, but when Earth is wanting, we must be content to make llveral little Banks upon one another eijghteen Inches high, and three or four Feet broad ; and the Parapet ought to be about 4 7 Feet above the higheft Bank, for covering the Soldiers : the Top of the Parapet must be floped, gradually defcending towards the Country, so that the Befieged may fee the Enemy.

The parts of those Works, which are next the Place, must be without a Parapet, and only inclofed with a fingle Wall, or a Row of Palifadoes, to avoid the Surprizes of the Enemy. It is on this side that a Gate must be (for a Communication from the Works to the Body of the Place); as also a Guard-Houfe, for covering the Soldiers defigned for it's defence.

All these Works ought to be environed with a Ditch 10 or 12 Toifes broad, communicat- ing with the Ditch of the Body of the Place, and also as deep.

On the outfide of that Ditch is made a Covered Way five or fix Toifes broad, with a Pa- rapet, and it's Bank, commonly furnifhed with an enclofure of strong Palifadoes, drove 4 or 5 Feet into the Ground. The Top of that Parapet must be floped next to the Country, and if it can be produced 20 or 30 Toifes it will be better : for a Slope (or Glacis) cannot be too long \ because, by means thereof, the Enemy cannot approach the Body of the Place, with- out being difcovered.

The Outworks of which we have fpoken, are the most common ones : There are many other forts of them, which we shall not mention, it requiring a great Volume.

How to measure the Works of Fortifications.

The Ground of which the Ramparts and Parapets are formed, is generally taken out of the Ditches made about the Place ; to know the Quantity of which, measure the Cavity of the Ditches, and reduce it to Cubic Toifes. As, for example, If the Ditch over-against the Face of a Baftion, be 50 Toifes long, 20 broad, and 4 deep •, multiply the Length by the Breadth, and the Product will be 1000 square Toifes, which multiplied by 4 the Depth, and there will arife 4000 Cubic Toifes.

Note, That since there is a Neceffity to give the Ground a great Slope, to keep it from crumbling to the Bottom, the Ditch will be wider at the Top than at the Bottom ; whence, if a Ditch be 20 Feet broad in the Middle of it's Depth, at the Top it must at least be 2.1 Toifes broad, and j8 Toifes at the Bottom : Thole 22 Toifes added to 18, make 40, whose half 20, is the mean Breadth to be used.

The Stone, or Brick- work, keeping together the Earth, ought to have thickness propor- tionable to it's height, and also about a Foot in Talud or Slope, the Fleight of every Toife.

If, for Example, a Wall be built to fuftain the Earth of the Rampart of a Place, and it is 6 Toifes high, the least thickness that can be given to that height, at the Top, must be 3 Feet, and at the Bottom, juft above the Foundation, 9 Feet, because of it's Talud of 1 Foot every Toife in height: Now these two thicknefies, 9 and 3 make 12, whose half 6 Feet is the mean thickness of the Wall; and, confequently, to line the Face of a Baftion, 50 Toifes long, 6 Toifes high, and one Toife of mean thickness, there must be 300 Cubic Toifes of Walling, excluding the Foundation, which cannot be determined without knowing the Ground. Besides t h i s &gt; there are commonly made Counter-Forts for fuftaining the Earth, and hindering it's preffing too much against the Walls. Thefe Counter-Forts ought to be funk in firm Ground, and enter in the dug Earth, at least a Toife ; they are 7 or 8 Feet broad at the Root, that is, on the Side where they are faftened to the Wall, and 4 or 5 Feet at the End, going into the Earth of the Rampart, which amounts to one Toife of Sur- face, in supposing (as we have already) that the Root is 7 Feet, and the End going into the Earth of the Rampart 5 Feet, which makes 12 Feet, half of which being 6, is the mean thickness ; and supposing them 4 Toifes in height, one with another, each will be 4 Cubic Toifes : and since there ought to be 10 in the Extent of 50 Toifes, the Stone, or Brick- Work of 10 Counter-Forts will be 40 Cubic Toifes : So that there will be about 1000 Cubic Toifes to wall the two Faces, and the Flanks of a Baftion, and to wall a Courtain, 80 Toifes in length, there must be about 600 Cubic Toifes of Stone, or Brick- Work; whence the Wall- ing lor the whole Place may be eafily computed.

Note, It is better to make an Eftimation too great, than too little.

It remains that we fay fomething of the Carpenters Toife, required to conftruct Bridges and Gates, and other Works of the like Nature.

In measuring of Timber, we reduce it to Solives.

A Solive is a Piece of Timber 12 Feet long, and 36 Inches in furface ; that is, 6 Inches broad, and 6 thick, which makes 3 Cubic Feet of Timber, being the seventy second Part of a Cubic Toife.

We mail give here two Ways of Calculation, to the End that the one may prove the other.

The first is, to reduce the Bignefs of the Piece of Timber into Inches, that is, the Inches of it's Breadth and Thicknefs, and after having multiplied these two Quantities by one an^ other, the Product must be multiplied by the Toifes, Feet and Inches of it's Length, which last Product being divided by 72, the Quotient will give the Number of Solives contained in the Piece of Timber.

The Reason o f this is, because 72 Pieces, 1 Inch Base, and a Toife long, make a Solive.

Suppose, for Example, a great Piece of Timber is to be reduced to Solives, whose length is 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches, and 12 by 15 Inches Base; multiply 15 by 12, the Product is 180 square Inches, which again multiplied by 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches, and the Product 495, divided by 12, will give 6 - g Solives.

The second Method is founded upon this, that a Solive contains 3 Cubic Feet.

As, for Example, If a Piece of Timber (the fame as before) be 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches long, and Base be 12 by 15 Inches; multiplying 12 by 15, the Product will be 180 square Inches-, the \ith Part of that Number, which is 15, being confidered as Feet, makes 2 Toifes 3 Feet, which, multiplied by the Length 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches, make 6 Solives, 5 Feet, and 3 Inches : So that there wants but 9 Inches, or the eighth Part of a Toife, to make 7 Solives, as in the Calculation of the first Method.

about 12 or 14 Inches in Diameter, whose Limb is divided into 360 Degrees, and A each- Degree into as many Minutes, either Diagonally, or otherwise, as the largenefs of the Instrument will admit.

Underneath, at the Places c c of this Circle, are fixed two little Pillars d d, for fupporting an Axis, upon which is fixed a Telescope, with a square Brass Tube, having two GlafTes therein, for better perceiving Objects at a great distance ; whence this Telescope may be raifed or lowered, according as Objects be Horizontal or not. The Ends of the aforsaid Pillars are joined by the Piece gg, upon the Middle of which is foldered a Socket with it's Screw, for receiving the Top of the Ball and Socket E. Upon and about the Center of the

Fig. C. Circle B, must the Index C move, which is a Circular Brass Plate, having upon the Middle

thereof a Box and Needle, orCompass, whose Meridian Line anfwers to the Fiducial Line a a. At the Places bb of the Index are fixed two little Pillars for fupporting an Axis, carry- ing a Telescope in the Middle thereof, whose Line of Collimation must be anfwerable to the Fiducial Line a a of the Index. This Telescope hath a square Brass Tube, and two GlafTes therein, and may be raifed or lowered, like that beforementioned. At each End of one of the perpendicular Sides of each Tube of the Telescopes, are fixed four small Sights for view- ing nigh Objects thorough them.

The Ends of the Index a a are cut Circular, so as to fit the Divisions upon the Limb of the Circle B, and when the said Limb B is Diagonally divided, the Fiducial Line at one End cf the Index fhews the Degrees and Minutes upon the Limb. But when the Limb is only divided into Degrees, and every 30th Minute, we have a much better Contrivance for find- ing, the Degrees, and every 2 Minutes upon the Limb, which is thus : Let the half Arc p a of one End of the Index contain exactly 8 Degrees of the Limb •, then divide the said half Arc into 15 equal Parts, at every five of which fet the Numbers 10, 20, 30, beginning from the Fiducial Line or middle of the Index. Now each of these equal Parts will be 32 Minutes : Therefore if you have a mind to fet the Fiducial Line of the Index to any Num- ber of Degrees, and every 2 Minutes upon the Limb •, for Example, to 40 Degrees 10 Mi- nutes ; move the Index fo, the Fiducial Line being between the 40th Degree, and the 40th Degree and 30 Minutes, that the Line of Division, numbered 10 upon the Index, may ex- actly fall upon some Line of Division of the Limb ; and then the Fiducial Line will fhew 40 Degrees, 10 Minutes.

Again : Suppose the Fiducial Line being between the 50th Degree and 30 Minutes, and the 51ft, then that Line of Division, of equal Parts on the Index, exactly falling upon fome Line of the Divisions of the Limb, will give the even Minutes above 50 Degrees 30 Minutes the Fiducial Line ftands at. As suppose the 4th Line of Division of the Index Hands exactly against some Line of Division of the Limb; then the Minutes above 40 Degrees 30 Minutes will be 8, that the Fiducial Line ftands at : Underftand the fame of others.

Fig. D. is the Brass Ball and Socket, in which goes the Plead of the three-legged Staff E, for fupporting the Instrument when using : Thefe three Legs are moveable by means of Joints, and may be taken fhorter by half at the Places a a a y by means of Screws, for better conveniency of Carriage.

Thus have you the beft Theodolite, as now made in England * briefly defcribed. The Use thereof will be fufficiently underftood by what our Author fays of the Use of the Semi-Circle (which is but half a Theodolite), and I in the Use of the Plain-Table, and Circumferentor.

Note, There are some Theodolites that have no Telescopes, but only 4 Perpendicular Sights 5 two being faftened upon the Limb, and two upon the Ends of the Index. Note likewise, That the Index, and Box and Needle, or Compass of the Theodolite, will ferve for a Cir- cumferentor.

TH E Table itfclf is a Parallelogram of Oak, or other Wood, about 15 Inches long, Fig. F. and 12 broad, confiding of two several Boards, round which are Ledges of the fame Wood •, the two opposite of which being taken off, and the Spangle unfkrewed from the Bot- tom, the aforsaid two Boards may be taken afunder for eafe and conveniency of Carriage. For the binding of the two Boards and Ledges faff, when the Table is fet together, there is a Box Jointed-Frame, about \ of an Inch broad, and of the fame thickness as the Boards, which may be folded together in 6 Pieces. This Frame is so contrived, that it may be taken off and put on the Table at pleafure, and may go eafily on the Table, either side being up- wards. This Frame also is to faften a Sheet of Paper upon the Table, by forcing down the Frame, and fqueezing in all the Edges of the Paper •, so that it lies firm and even upon the Table, that thereby the Plot of a Field, or other Inclofure, may conveniently be drawn up- on it.

On both sides this Frame, near the inward Edge, are Scales of Inches fubdivided into 10 equal Parts, having their proper Figures fet to them. The Uses of these Scales of Inches, are for ready drawing of Parallel Lines upon the Paper ; and also for fhifting your Paper, when one Sheet will not hold the whole Work.

Upon one side of the said Box Frame, are projected the 360 Degrees of a Circle from a Brass Center-Hole in the Middle of the Table. Each of these Degrees are fubdivided into 30 Minutes ; to every 10th Degree is fet two Numbers, one expreffing the proper Number of Degrees, and the other the Complement of that Number of Degrees to 360. This is done to avoid the trouble of Subftraction in taking of Angles.

On the other Side of this Frame, are projected the 180 Degrees of a Semi-Circle from a Brass Center-FIole, in the Middle of the Table's length, and about a fourth Part of it's breadth. Each of these Degrees are fubdivided into 30 Minutes ; to every 10th Degree is fet likewise, as on the other side, two Numbers ; one expreffing the proper Number of Degrees, and the other the Complement of that Number of Degrees to 180, for the fame Reason, as before.

The manner of projecting the Degrees on the aforsaid Frame, is, by having a large Circle divided into Degrees, and every 30 Minutes : For then placing either of the Brass Center- Floles on the Table, in the Center of that Circle so divided, and laying a Ruler from that Center to the Degrees on the Limb of the Circle ; where the Edge of the Ruler cuts the Frame, make Marks for the Correfpondent Degrees on the Frame.

The Degrees thus infertecl on the Frame, are of excellent use in wet or ftormy Weather, when you cannot keep a Sheet of Paper upon the Table. Also these Degrees will make the Plain-Table a Theodoike, or a Semi-Circle, according as what side of the Frame is upper- most.

There is a Box, with a Needle and Card, covered with a Glass, fixed to one of the long Sides of the Table, by means of a Screw, that thereby it may be taken off. This Box and Needle is very useful for placing the Instrument in the fame Pofition upon every remove.

There belongs to this Instrument a Brass Socket and Spangle, fere wed with three Screws to the Bottom of the Table, into which must be put the Head of the three-legged Staff, which may be fcrewed faft, by means of a Screw in the Side of the Socket.

There is alio an Index belonging to the Table, which is a large Brass Ruler, at least 16 Inches long, and 2 Inches broad, and so thick as to make it strong and firm, having a Hoped P.dge, called the Fiducial Edge, and two Sights fcrewed perpendicularly on it, of the lame Height. They must be fet on the Ruler perfectly at the fame Distance from the Fiducial Edge. Upon this Index it is ulual to have many Scales of equal Parts, as also Diagonals, and Lints of Chord?,

SECTION

Of the GonflmSiion of the Circumferentor.

Fig. G. THIS Instrument confifts of a Brass Index and Circle, all of a Piece •, the Index is com-

monly made about 14 Inches long, an Inch and half broad, and of a convenient Thicknefs. The Diameter of the aforenamed Circle is about 7 Inches. On this Circle is made a Card, whose Meridian Line anfwers to the Middle of the Breadth of the Index : That Card is divided into 360 Degrees. There is a Brass Ring foldered on the Circumference of the Circle, on which fcrews another Ring with a flat Glass in it ; so that they make a kind of Box to contain the Needle fufpended upon the Pivot placed in the Center of the Circle.

There are also two Sights to fere w on, or Aide up and down the Index, like those before- named, belonging to the Index of the Plain-Table •, as likewise a Spangle and Socket fcrewed on to the back-side of the Circle, for putting the Plead of the Staff in.

SECTION II.

Of the Vfe of the Plain-Table and Circumferentor.

BUT first, it is neceffary to know how to fet the Parts of the Plain-Table together, to make it fit for ufe.

When you would make your Table fit for ufe, lay the two Boards together, and also the Ledges at the Ends in their due Places, according as they are marked. Then lay a Sheet of white Paper all over the Table, which must be ftretched over the Boards, by putting on the Box Frame, which binds both the Paper to the Boards, and the Boards to one another : Then fcrew the Socket on the back-side the Table, and also the Box and Needle in it's due Place, the Meridian Line of the Card lying parallel to the Meridian or Diameter of the Table ; which Diameter is a Right Line drawn upon the Table, from the Beginning of the Degrees thro' the Center, and so to the End of the Degrees. Then put the Socket upon the Head of the Staff, and there fcrew it : Also put the Sights upon the Index, and lay the Index on the Table. So is your Instrument prepared for ufe, as a Plain-Table, Theodolite, or Semi- Circle.

But Note, It is either a Theodolite, or Semi-Circle, according as the Theodolite or Semi-Circular Side of the Frame is upwards ; for when you use your Instrument as a Plain- Table, you may place your Center in any part of the Table, which you judge most proper for bringing on the Work you intend. But if you use your Instrument as a Theodolite, the Index must be turned about upon the Brass Center-Hole in the Middle of the Table ; and if for a Semi-Circle, upon the other Brass Center-Hole, by means of a Pin or Needle placed therein.

If you have a mind to use this Instrument, as a Circumferentor, you need only fcrew the Box and Needle to the Index, and both of them to the Head of the Staff, with a Brass Screw- Pin fitted for that purpofe : So that the Staff being fixed in any Place, the Index and Sights, may turn about at pleafure, without moving the Staff.

USE I. How to measure the Quantity of any Angle in the Field, by the Plain-Tablet considered as a Theodolite, Semi-Circle, and Circumferentor.

I. How to obferve an Angle in the Field by the Plain-Table.

Plate 14. Suppose E K, KG, to be two Hedges, or two Sides of a Field, including the Angle

Fig. i. E KG, and it is required to draw upon the Table an Angle equal thereto : Firit place your In-

ftrument as near the Angular Point K as conveniency will permit, turning it about, 'till the North End of the Needle hangs directly over the Meridian Line in the Card, and then fcrew the Table faft. Then upon your Table, with your ProtracTing-Pin (which is a fine Needle put into a Piece of Box or Ivory, neatly turned) or Compals-Point, affign any Point at pleafure upon the Table, and to that Point apply the Edge of the Index, turning the Index about upon that Point, 'till thro' the Sights thereof you fee a Mark fet up atE, or parallel to the Line E K : And then with your Protra£ting-Pin, Compass-Point, or Pencil, draw a Line by the Side of the Index to the affigned Point upon the Table. Then (the Table remaining immoveable) turn the Index about upon the forementioned Point, and direct the Sights to the Mark fet up at G, or parallel thereto, that is, so far distant from G, as your Instrument is placed from K ; and then by the Side of the Index draw another Line to the affigned Point. Thus will there be drawn upon the Table two Lines reprefenting the Hedges E K, and K G ; and which include an Angle equal to the Angle E K G. And tho' you know not the Quantity of this Angle, yet you may find it, if required : For in working by this Instrument, it is fufficient only to give the Proportions of Angles, and not their Quantities in Degrees, as in working by the Theodolite, Serni-Circle, or Circumferentor. Also in working by the Plain-Table, there needs no Protraction at all, for you will have upon your Table the true

Figure of any Angle or Angles that you obferve in the Field, in their true Pofition;, without
any further trouble.

II. How to find the Quantity of an Angle in the Field, by the Plain-Table, conftdered as a

Theodolite, or Semi-Circle.

Let it first be required to find the Quantity of the Angle EKG by the Plain-Table, as a Fig. i. Theodolite : Place your Instrument at K, with the Theodolite side of the Frame upwards, laying the Index upon the Diameter thereof-, then turn the whole Instrument about (the In- dex itill rcfting upon the Diameter) 'till thro' the Sights you efpy the Mark at E : Then fcrew- jne the Instrument faft there, turn the Index about upon the Theodolite Center-Hole in the Middle of the Table, 'till thro' the Sights you efpy the Mark at G. Then note what Degrees on the Frame of the Table are cut by the Index, and those will be the Quantity of the Angle EKG fought.

You must proceed in the fame manner for finding the Quantity of an Angle by the Plain- Table as a Semi-Circle ; only put the Semi-Circle side of the Frame upwards, and move the Index upon the other Center-Hole.

III. How to obferve the Quantity of an Angle by the Circumferentor.

If it be required to find the Quantity of the former Angle EKG by the Circumferentor, Fig. i. First, place your Instrument (as before) at K, with the Flower-de-luce in the Card towards you. Then direct your Sights to E, and obferve what Degrees are cut by the South-End of the Needle, which let be 296 ; then turning the Instrument about (the Flower-de-luce always towards you), direct the Sights to G, noting then also, what Degrees are cut by the South- End of the Needle, which suppose 182. This done (always) fubftract the leffer from the greater, as in this Example 182 from 296, and the Remainder is 114 Degrees ; which is the true Quantity of the Angle E K G.

Again; The Instrument (landing at K, and the Sights being directed toE, as before, fup- pofe the South-End of the Needle had cut 79 Degrees ; and then directing the Sights to G 5 the fame End of the Needle had cut 325 Degrees. Now, if from 325 you fubftract 79, the Remainder is 246. But because this Remainder 246 is greater than 180, you must therefore fubftract 246 from 360, and there will remain 114, the true Quantity of the Angle fought.

This adding and fubftracting for finding of Angles may feem tedious to fome. But here note, That for quick difpatch the Circumferentor is as good an Instrument as any, for in go- ing round a Field, or in furveying a whole Manor, you are not to take notice of the Quan- tity of any Angle ; but only to obferve what Degrees the Needle cuts : as hereafter will be man ife fi- ll S E II. Hew by the Plain-Table, to take the Plot of a Field at one Station within the fame, from whence all the Angles of the fame Field may be feen.

Having entered upon the Field to furvey, your first work must be to fet up some vifible Fig. 2. Mark at each Angle thereof; which being done, make choice of some convenient Place about the Middle of the Field, from whence all the Marks may be feen, and there place your Table covered with a Sheet of Paper, with the Needle hanging directly over the Meridian Line of the Card (which you must always have regard to, efpecially when you are to furvey many Fields together). Then make a Mark about the Middle of the Paper, to reprefent that part of the Field where the 7'able ftands ; and laying the Index upon this Point, direct your Sights to the several Angles where you before placed Marks, and draw Lines by the Side of the Index upon the Paper. Then measure the Distance of every of these Marks from your Table, and by your Scale fet the fame Distances upon the Lines drawn upon the Table, mak- ing small Marks with your Protracting-Pin, or Compass-Point, at the End of every of them. Then Lines being drawn from the one to the other of these Points, will give you the exact Plot of the Field ; all the Lines and Angles upon the Table being proportional to those of the Field.

Example ; Suppose the Plot of the Field A B C D E F was to be taken. Having placed Marks in the several Angles thereof, make choice of some proper Place about the Middle of the Field, as at L, from whence you may behold all the Marks before placed in the several Angles ; and there place your Table. Then turn your Instrument about, 'till the Needle hangs over the Meridian Line of the Card, denoted by the Line N S.

Your Table being thus placed with a Sheet of Paper thereon, make a Mark about the Middle of your Table, which shall reprefent the Place where your Table ftands. Then, ap- plying your Index to this Point, direct the Sights to the first Mark at A, and the Index rett- ing there, draw a Lire by the Side thereof to the Point L. Then with your Chain measure the Distance from I.,, the Piace where your Table ftands, to A, the first Mark, which fup- pofe 8 Chains, 10 Links. Then take 8 Chains 10 Links from any Scale, and let that Di- ftance upon the Line from L to A

Then directing the Sights to B, draw a Line by the Side of the Index, as before, and iriCifure the Distance from your Table at L, to the Mark at B, which suppose 8 Chains 7/5 Links. This distance taken from your Scale, and applied to your Table from L to B, will give the Point B, reprefenting the second Mark.

Then direct the Sights to the third Mark C, and draw a Line by the Side of the Index, measuring the Distance from L to C, which suppose 10 Chains 65 Links. This Distance be- ing taken from your Scale, and applied to your Table from L to C, will give you the Point C, reprefenting the third Mark.

In this manner you mull: deal with the Rest of the Marks at D, E, and F, and more, if the Field had confifted of more Sides and Angles.

Laftly ; When you have made Obfervations of all the Marks round the Field, and found the Points ABCDE and F upon your Table, you must draw Lines from one Point to another, 'till you conclude where you first begun. As, draw a Line from A to B, from B to C, from C to D, from D to E, from E to F, and from F to A, where you begun •, then will A B C D E F, be the exact Figure of your Field, and the Line N S the Me- ridian.

Note, Our Chains are commonly 4 Poles in Length, and are divided into one hundred equal Parts, called Links, at every tenth of which are Brass Difti notions numbering them.

USE III. To take the Plot of a Wood, Park, or other large Champ ain Plain t by the Plain-Table, in measuring round about the fame.

Suppose ABCDEFGtobea large Wood, whose Plot you defire to take upon the Plain-Table, pie,, , I. Having put a Sheet of Paper upon the Table, place your Instrument at the Angle A, and direct your Sights to the next Angle at B, and by the Side thereof draw a Line upon your Table, as the Line A B. Then measure by the Hedge -Side from the Angle A to the Angle B, which suppose 12 Chains 5 Links. Then trom your Scale take 12 Chains 5 Links, and lay off upon your Table from A to B. Then turn the Index about, and direct the Sights to G, and draw the Line A G upon the Table. But at prefent you need not measure the Distance.

II. Remove your Instrument from A, and fet up a Mark where it last flood, and place your Instrument at the second Angle B. Then laying the Index upon the Line A B, turn the whole Instrument about, 'till thro* the Sights you fee the Mark fet up at A, and there icrew the Instrument. Then laying the Index upon the Point B, direct your Sights to the Angle C, and draw the Line B C upon your Table. Then measuring the Distance B C 4 Chains 45 Links, take that Distance from your Scale, and fet it upon your Table from B toC.

III. Remove your Instrument from B, and fet up a Mark in the room of it, and place your Instrument at C, laying the Index upon the Line C B ; and turn the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you efpy the Mark fet up at B, and there faften the Instrument. Then laying the Index on the Point C, direct the Sights to D, and draw upon the Table the Line C D. Then measure from C to D 8 Chains S5 Links, and fet that Distance upon your Table from C to D.

IV. Remove the Instrument to D (placing a Mark at C, where it last flood), and lay the Index upon the Line DC, turning the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you fee the Mark at C, and there faften the Instrument. Then lay the Index on the Point D, and direct the Sights to E, and draw the Line D E. Then with your Chain measure the Distance DE 13 Chains 4 Links, which lay off on the Table from D to E.

V. Remove your Instrument to E (placing a Mark at D, where it last flood), and laying the Index upon the Line D E, turn the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you fee the Mark at D, and there faften the Instrument. Then lay the Index on the Point E, and direct the Sights to F, and draw the Line E F. Then measure the Distance E F 7 Chains 70 Links, which take from your Scale, and lay off from E to F.

VI. Remove your Instrument to F, placing a Mark at E (where it last flood), and lay the Index upon the Line E F, turning the Instrument about, 'till you fee the Mark fet up at E, and there faften the Instrument. Then laying the Index on the Point F, direct the Sights to G, and draw the Line F G upon the Table, which Line F G will cut the Line A G in the Point G. Then measure the Distance F G 5 Chains 6y Links, and lay it off from F to G.

VII. Remove your Instrument to G (fetting a Mark where it last flood), and lay the Index upon the Line F G, turning the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you fee the Mark at F, and there faften the Instrument. Then laying the Index upon the Point G, di- rect the Sights to A (your first Mark), and draw the Line G A, which, if you have truly wrought, will pass directly thro' the Point A, where you first began.

In this manner may you take the Plot of any Champain Plain, be it never so large. And here note, That very often Hedges are of such a Thicknefs, that you cannot come near the Sides or Angles of the Field, either to place your Instrument, or measure the Lines. There- fore in such Cafes you must place your Instrument, and measure your Lines parallel to the Side thereof ; and then your Work will be the fame as if you measured the Hedge itfelf.

NO T E also, That in thus going about a Field, you may much help yourfelf by the Needle. For looking what Degree of the Card the Needle cuts at one Station, if you remove your Inflru merit to the next Station, and with your Sights look to the Mark where the Instrument last flood, you will find the Needle to cut the fame Degree again, which will give you no small Satisfaction in the profecution of your Work. And tho' there be a hundred or more Sides, the Needle will itill cut the fame Degree at all of them, except you have committed some former Error : therefore at every Station have an Eye to the Needle.

Of Shifting of Paper,

In taking the Plot of a Field by the Plain-Table, and going about the fame, as before di- Fig. 4. reded, it may so fall out, if the Field be very large, and when you are to take many Inclo- fures together, that the Sheet of Paper upon the Table will not hold all the Work. But you must be forced to take off that Sheet, and put another clean Sheet in the room thereof: and, in Plotting of a Manor or Lordfhip, many Sheets may be thus changed, which we call Shifting of Paper. The Manner ot performing thereof is as follows.

Suppose in going about to take the Plot A B C D E F G, as before directed,, that you hav- ing made choice of the Angle at A for the Place of the Beginning, and vproceeded from thence to B, and ftom B to C, and from C to D, when you come to the Angle at D, and are to draw D E, you want room to draw the fame upon the Table. Do thus :

First, thro' the Point D draw the Line D O, which is almost so much of the Line D E, as the Table will contain. Then near the Edge of the Table H M, draw a Line parallel to H M, by means of the Inches and Subdivifions on the opposite Sides of the Frame, as P Q^, and another Line at Right Angles to that thro' the Point O, as O N. This being done, mark this Sheet of Paper with the Figure (1) about the Middle thereof, for the first Sheet. Then taking this Sheet off your Table, put another clean Sheet thereon, and draw upon it Fl - _ a Line parallel to the contrary Edge of the Table, as the Line R S. Then taking your first Sheet of Paper, lay it upon the Table fo, that the Line P Qjnay exactly lie upon the Line R S, to the b -ft advantage, as at the Point O {Fig. 5.). Then with the Point of your CompafTes draw so much of the Line O D upon the clean Sheet of Paper as the Table will hold. Hav- ing thus done, proceed with your Work upon the new Sheet, beginning at the Point O ; and so going forward with your Work, as in all Refpects has before been directed •, as from O to E, from E to F, from F to G, and from G to A (by this direction), fhifting your Paper as often as you have occafion.

USE IV. How to take the Plot of any Wood., Park, &c. by going about the fame, and making Obfervations at every Angle thereof by the Circumferentor.

Suppose ABCDEFGHK is a large Field, or other Inclofure, to be Plotted by the Fig. 6.

Circumferentor.

1. Placing your Instrument at A (the Flower-de-luce being towards you), direct the Sights to B, the South-End of the Needle cutting 191 Degrees, and the Ditch, Wall, or Hedge, containing 10 Chains 75 Links. The Degrees cut, and the Line measured, must be noc«d down in your Field-Book.

2. Place your Instrument at B, and direct the Sights to C, the South-End of the Needle cutting 279 Degrees, and the Line B C containing 6 Chains 83 Links ; which note down in your Field-Book.

3. Place the Instrument at C, and direct the Sights to D, the Needle cutting 216 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line C D containing 7 Chains 82 Links.

4. Place the Instrument at D, and direct the Sights to E, the Needle cutting 327 Degrees, and the Line D E containing 9 Chains 96 Links.

5. Place the Instrument at E, and direct the Sights to F, the Needle cutting 12 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line F E 9 Chains 71 Links.

6. Place the Instrument at F, and direct the Sights to G, the Needle cutting 342 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line F G being 7 Chains 54 Links.

7. Place the Instrument at G, and direct the Sights to H, the Needle cutting 98 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line G FI containing 7 Chains 52 Links.

8. Place the Instrument at H, and direct the Sights to K, the Needle cutting 71 Deg. and the Line H K containing 7 Chains 78 Links.

9. Place the Instrument at K, and direct the Sights to A (where you began), the Needle cutting 161 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line K A containing 8 Chains 22 Links.

Having gone round the Field in this manner, and collected the Degrees cut, and the Lints measured, in the Field-Book, you will find them to ftand as follows, by which you may pro- tract and draw your Field, as prelently I shall (hew.

In o-oing about a Field in this manner, you may perceive a wonderful quick Difpatch j for you are only to take notice of the Degrees cut once at every Angle, and not to use any Back-Sights, that is, to look thro' the Sights to the Station you last went from. But to ufe Back-Sights with the Circumferentor, is beft to confirm your Work : For when you (land at any Angle of a Field, and direct your Sights to the next, and obferve what Degrees the South-End of the Needle cuts ; if you remove your Instrument from this Angle to the next, and look to the Mark or Angle where it last flood, the Needle will there also cut the fame Degrees as before.

So the Instrument being placed at A, if you direct the Sights to B, you will find the Needle to cut 19-1 Degrees •, then removing your Instrument to B, if you direct the Sights to A, the Needle will then also cut 191 Degrees.

Notwithstanding the quick Difpatch this Instrument makes, one half of the Work will al- most be faved ; if, inftead of placing the Instrument at every Angle, you place it but at every other Angle. An Inftance of which take in the aforegoing Example.

1. Placing the Instrument at A, and directing the Sights to B, you find the Needle'to cut 191 Degrees. Then,

2. Placing the Instrument at B, directing the Sights to C, you find the Needle to cut 279 Degrees. And,

3. Placing the Instrument at C, and directing the Sights to D, you find the Needle to cut 2 1 6 Degrees.

Now, having placed your Instrument at A, and noted down the Degrees cut by the Needle, which was 191, you need not go to the Angle B at all, but go next to the Angle C, and there place your Instrument ; and directing your Sights backwards to B, you wifl find the Needle to cut 279 Degrees, which are the fame as were before cut when the Inftru- ment was placed at B : so that the Labour of placing the Instrument at B is wholly faved. Then (the Instrument ftill (landing at C) direct the Sights to D, and the Needle will cut 216 Degrees, as before, which note in your Field-Book. This done, remove your Inftru- ment to £, and obferve according to the last Directions, and you will find the Work to be the fame as before. Then remove the Instrument from E to G, from G to K, and so to eyery second Angle. I now proceed, to fhew the Manner of Protracting the former Obfervations.

According to the largenefs of your Plot provide a Sheet of Paper, as L MN O, upon which draw the Line L M, and parallel thereto draw divers other Lines quite thro' the whole Paper, as the pricked Lines, in the Figure, drawn between L M and N O. Thefe Parallels thus drawn, reprefent Meridians. Upon one or other of these Lines, or parallel to one of them, must the Diameter of your Protractor be always laid.

r. Your Paper being thus prepared, afilgn any Point upon any of the Meridians, as A, upon which place the Center of the Protractor, laying the Diameter thereof upon the Me- ridian Line drawn upon the Paper. Then look in your Field-Book what Degrees the Needle cuts at A, which was 191 Degrees. Now, because the Degrees were above 180, you must therefore lay the Semi-Circle of the Protractor downwards, and keeping it there, make a Mark with the Protracting-Pin against 191 Degrees \ thro' which Point, from A, draw the Line A B, containing 10 Chains 75 Links.

2. Lay the Center of the Protractor on the Point B, with the Diameter in the fame Por- tion as before directed (which always obferve). And because the Degrees cut at B were more than 180, viz. 279, therefore the Semi-Circle of the Protractor must lie dov/nwards •, and fo holding it, make a Mark against the 279 Degrees, and thro' it draw the Line B C, contain- ing 6 Chains 83 Links.

3. Place the Center of the Protractor on the Point C. Then the Degrees cut by the Needle at the Obfervation in C, being above 180, namely, 216 Degrees 30 Minutes, the Semi-Circle of the Protractor must lie downwards. Then making a Mark against 216 Deg. 30 Min. thro' it draw the Line C D, containing 7 Chains 82 Links.

4. Lay the Center of the Protractor upon the Point'D-, the Degrees cut by the Needle at that Angle being 325 : which being above 180, lay the Semi-Circle downward ; and against 3,25 Degrees make a Mark, thro' which Point, and the Angle D, draw the Line D E, con- taining 6 Chains 96 Links,

5. Remove your Protractor to E. And bccaufe the Degrees cut by the Needle at this Angle were less than ioo, namely, 12 Degrees 30 Min. therefore lay the Semi-Circle of the Protractor upwards, and make a Mark, against 12 Degrees 30 Minutes, thro' which draw the Line E F, containing 9 Chains 71 Links.

6. Lay the Center of the Protractor upon the Point F ; and becaiife the Degrees to be pro- tracted are above iSo, viz. 342 Degrees 30 Minutes, lay the Semi-Circle of the Protractor downwards, and make a Mark against: 342 Degrees 30 Minutes, drawing the Line F G, containing 7 Chains 54 Links.

And in this Manner must you -protract all the other Angles, G, H, and K, and more, if the Field had confided of more Angles.

CHAP. III.

Of the CohfiruEiton arid Use of the Surveying- Wheel.

THIS Instrument confifts of a wooden Wheel, fhod with Iron, to prevent it's wear- Fig ?, ing, exactly two Feet seven Inches and a half in Diameter, that so it's Circumlerence may be eight Feet three Inches, or half a Pole.

At the End of the Axle-Tree of this Wheel, on the left Side thereof, is, at Right Angles to the Axle-Tree, a little Star, about three fourths of an Inch Diameter, having eight Teeth. Now the Use of this Star is such, that when the Wheel moves round, the said Star's Teeth, by falling at Right Angles into the Teeth of another Star of eight Teeth, fixed at one End of an Iron Rod (QJ caufes the Iron Rod to move once round in the fame Time the Wheel hath moved once round. Therefore every time you have drove the Wheel half a Pole, the Iron Rod goes once round.

This Iron Rod, lying along a Groove in the Side of the Body of the Instrument, hath on the other End a i qua re Hole, in which goes the square End b of the little Cylinder P. This Cylinder is faftened underneath the upper Plate H, of a Movement, covered with a Glass, placed in the Body of the Instrument at B, yet fo, that it may be move- Fi'g. 0. able about it's Axis, having the End a cut into a fingle threaded perpetual Screw, which falling into the Teeth of the Wheel A, being thirty-two in Number, when you drive the Instrument forwards, caufes the Wheel A to go once round at the End of each 16th Pole. The Pinion B hath fix Teeth, which falling into the Teeth of the Wheel C, whose Number is fixty, caufes that to move once round at the End of each 1 60th Pole, or half Mile. This Wheel carries round a Hand, once in 160 Poles, over the Divisions of an annular Plate, fixed upon the Plate H, whose outmost Limb is divided into 160 equal Parts, each tenth of which is numbered, and fhews how many Poles the Instrument is drove.

Again •, The Pinion D, which is fixed to the fame Arbre as the Wheel C is, hath twenty Teeth, which by their falling into the Teeth of the Wheel E, which hath forty Teeth, caufes the said Wheel E to go round once in 320 Poles, or one Mile-, and the Pinion F, of twelve Teeth, falling into the Teeth of the Wheel G, whose Number is 72, caufes the 1 Wheel G to go once round in 12 Miles. This Wheel G carries another leifer Hand once round in 12 Miles, over the Divisions of the innermost Limb of the aforsaid annular Plate, which is divided into twelve equal Parts for Miles, and each Mile fubdivided into Halves and Quarters (that is, into eight equal P«arts, for Furlongs), with Roman Characters num- bering the Miles.

The Use of this Instrument is such, that by driving the Wheel before you, the Number of Miles, Poles, or both, you have gone, is eafily fhewn by the two Elands. And so this Instrument, together with a Theodolite or Circumferentor, for taking of Bearings, is of ex- cellent Use in Plotting of Roads, Rivers, &c. For having placed your Wheel and Circum- ferentor at the Beginning of the Road you defign to plot, which call your first Station, caufe fome Perfon to go as far along the Road as you find it ftraight •, and then take a Bearing to him, which fet down. This being done, drive the Wheel before you to the Place where the Man (lands, which call the second Station, and note, by the Hands of the Dial-Plate, the Distance from the first Station to the second, which fet down. Again, Having placed your Circumferentor at the second Station, caufe the Man to go along the Road 'till he comes to another Bend therein. And from the second Station take a Bearing to the Man at the third, which fet down. Then drive the Wheel from the second Station to the third, and note the Distance, which fet down. And in this Manner proceed 'till you come to your Journey's End. Then in Plotting the Road, you must obferve the fame Directions, as are given in Plotting the Example of Use IV. of the la't Chapter.

HE nrfl of these Instruments is a Water-Level, compofcd of a round Tube of Brass, or other solid Matter, about 3 Feet long, and 12 or 15 Lines Diameter, whose Ends are turned up at Right Angles, for receiving two Glass Tubes, 3 or 4 Inches long, fattened on them with Wax 0? Ma- flick. At the Middle and underneath this Tube, is fixed a Ferrel, for placing it upon it's Foot.

There is as much common or coloured Water poured into one End of it, as that it may appear in the Glass Tubes. This Level, altho' very fimple, is very commodious for levelling small Distances. It is founded upon this, that Water always naturally places itfelf level ; and therefore the Height of the Water in the two Glass Tubes will be always the fame, in refpect to the Center of the Earth.

The Air-Level B, is a very flraight Glass Tube, every where of the fame Thicknefs, of an indetermined Length, and Thicknefs in proportion ; being filled to a drop with Spirit of Wine, or other Liquor, not fubject to freeze. The Ends of the Tube are hermetically fealed, that is, the End through which the Spirit of Wine is poured mufl afterwards be clofed,. by heating it with the Flame of a Lamp, blown thro' a little Brass Tube, to make the heat the greater ; and then when the Glass is become foft, the End must be clofed up.

When this Inflrument is perfectly level, the Bubble of Air will fix itfelf juft in the Mid- dle, and when it is not level, the Bubble of Air will rife to the top.

Conjtruifien of an Air -Lev eh

This Inflrument is cornpofed of an Air-Level 1, about 8 Inches long, and 7 or 8 Lines in Diameter, fet in a Brass Tube 2 ; which is left open in the Middle for feeing the Bubble of Air at the Top.

It is carried upon a very flrong flraight Rule, about a Foot long, at the Ends of which arc placed two Sights exaclly of the fame Height, and like that of Number 3, which has a square Hole therein, having two Fillets of Brass very finely filed, eroding one another at Right Angles, in the Middle of which Fillets is drilled a little Hole. There is fattened a little thin fciece of Brass to this Sight, 'with a small Headed-Rivet, to flop the said Square opening,

when there is occafion,- and having a little Hole drilled thro' it, anfwering to that which is in the Middle of the Fillets. The Brass Tube is fattened upon the Rule, by means of two Screws, one of which marked 4, ferves to raife or deprefs the Tube at pleafure, for placing it level, and making it agree with the Sights.

The Top of the Ball and Socket is riveted to a little Rule, that fprings, one of whose Ends is fattened with two Screws to the great Rule, and at the other End there is a Screw 5, fervinf to raife or deprefs the whole Instrument when it is nearly level.

The Manner of adjutting this Level is eafy, for you need but place it upon it's Foot, fo that the Bubble of Air may be exactly in the Middle of the Tube ; then fhutting the Sight next to the Eye, and opening the other, the Point of the Object which is cut by the hori- zontal Fillet is level with the Eye •, and to know whether the Air-Level agrees well with the Sights, you mutt turn the Instrument quite about, and fhut the Sight which before was opened, and open the other. Then looking through the little Hole, if the fame Point of the Object before observed be cut by the horizontal Fillet, it is a fign the Level is juft •, but if there be found any difference, the Tube mutt be raifed or deprefled by means of the Screw 4, 'till the Sights agree with the Level ; that is, that looking at an Object, the Bubble of Air being in the Middle, and afterwards turning the Instrument about, the fame Object may be ieen.

The Level D is a little Glass Tube inclofed within a Brass Tube, fattened upon a Rule per- Fig. D, fectly equal in Thicknefs, and ferves to know whether a Plane be level, or not.

Conflruclion of a Tele/cope Air- Level.

This Level is like the Level C, but inftead of Sights, it carries a Telescope to difcover Fig E. Objects at a good Distance. This Telescope is in a little Brass Tube, about 15 Inches long, fattened upon the fame Rule as the Level, which ought to be of a good Thicknefs, and very ftraight.

At the End of the Tube of the Telescope, marked 1, enters the little Tube 1, carrying the Eye-Glass, and a human Hair horizontally placed in the Focus of the Object-Glass 2. This little Tube may be drawn out or puttied into the great one, for adjutting the Telescope to different Sights.

At the other End of the Telescope is placed the Object-Glass, whose Construction is the fame as that before-mentioned, belonging to the Semi-Circle.

The whole Body of the Telescope is fattened to the Rule, as well as the Level, with Screws, upon two little square Plates, foldered towards the Ends of each Tube, which ought to be perfectly equal in Thicknefs.

The Screw 3, is for raifing or lowering, the little Fork carrying the human Hair, and making it agree with the Bubble of Air, when the Instrument is level ; and the Screw 4, is for making the Bubble of Air agree with the Telescope.

Underneath the Rule there is a Brass Plate with Springs, having a Ball and Socket fattened thereto.

The Level F, is in form of a Square, having it's two Branches of equal length ; at the Fig. F, Junction of which there is made a little Hole, from which hangs a Thread and Plummet, playing upon a Perpendicular Line, in the Middle of the Quadrant, often divided into 90 Degrees. It's Use is very eafy, for the Ends of the Branches being placed upon a Plane, we may know that the Plane is level when the Thread plays upon the Perpendicular in the Middle of the Quadrant.

Conflruclion of a 'Telescope Plumb-Level.

This Instrument is compofed of two Branches, joined together at Right Angles ; whereof Fig. G, that carrying the Thread and Plummet, is about a Foot and a half, or two Foot long.

This Thread is hung towards the Top of the Branch, at the Point 2. The Middle of the Branch, where the Thread paries, is hollow, that so it may not touch in any Place but to- wards the Bottom, at the Place 3, where there is a little Blade of Silver, on which is drawn a Line perpendicular to the Telescope.

The said Cavity is covered by two Pieces of Brass, making as it were a kind of Cafe, left the Wind fhould agitate the Thread ; for which reason there is also a Glass covering the Silver Blade, to the End that we may fee when the Thread and Plummet play upon the Per- pendicular. The Telescope 1, is fattened to the other Branch, which is about two Feet long, and is made like the other Telescopes of which we have already fpoken. All the Fxactnefs of this Instrument confifts in having the Telescope at Right Angles with the Perpendicular.

This Instrument has a Ball and Socket faftened behind the aforsaid Eranch, for placing it upon it's Foot.

There are some of these fort of Levels made of Brass or iron, whose Telescope and the Cavity, in which is included the Thread carrying the Plummet, is about 4 or 5 Feet long, in order to level great Distances at once.

The Telescope is about 1 Inch and a half Diameter, and theCafe in which theThread, carrying the Plummet, is inclofed, is about 2 Inches wide, and half an Inch thick. This Cafe is fattened with Screws in the Middle, to the Telescope ; so that they may be at Right Angles with one another: And at the two Ends of the Telescope are adjufted two broad Circles, in which the Telescope exactly turns ; which Circles, being flat underneath, are faftened to a strong Iron Rule.

This Level is fupported by two Feet almost like that of Figure E, Plate 12, faftened with Screws to the Extremities of the Iron Rule. Also there are two Openings, covered with Glasses, inclofed in little Brass Frames, which open, that so the Thread and Plummet may be hung to the Top of the Cafe, and play upon two little Silver Blades, in a Line drawn on them perpendicular to the Telescope. Thefe Blades are placed against the Openings of the Cafe* and the Telescope is like that before fpoken of, on the Semi-Circle.

All the Exactnefs of this Instrument confifts in having the Telescope at Right Angles to the Perpendiculars drawn upon the Silver Blades.

To prove this Level, you must place it upon it's Foot, in such manner that the Thread may exactly play upon the Perpendicular, and note some Object cut by the Hair in the Focus of the Telescope. Then taking off the Thread and Plummet, turn the Instrument upfide down, and hanging the Thread and Plummet to the Hook at the Bottom of the Cafe, which will now be uppermost, look thro' the Telescope at the aforsaid Object, and if the Thread exactly plays upon the Perpendicular, it is a fign the Instrument is exact ; but if it does not, you mult remove the little Hook to the Right-hand or Left, 'till you make the Thread fall upon the Perpendicular, both before you have turned the Instrument upfide down, and after- wards. You may likewise raife or lower the Telescope, by means of a Screw. Note, Inge- nious Workmen may eafily fupply what I have omitted in this brief Defcription. Fig. H, The Instrument H is a little fimple Level, founded on the fame Principle as the three pre- cedent ones •, the Figure thereof is fufficient to fhew it's Conftruction and Use. Fig. I. The Level I. places itfelf, and is compofed of a pretty thick Brass Rule, about one Foot

long, and an Inch broad, having two Sights of the fame Height placed at the Ends of the Rule, and in the Middle there is a kind of Beam (almost like those of common Scales) for freely fufpending the Level.

At the Bottom of the said Rule is fcrewed on a Piece of Brass, likewise carrying a pretty heavy Ball of Brass. All the Exactnefs of this Instrument confifts in a perfect Equilibrium ; to know which, it is eafy : for holding the Instrument fufpended by it's Ring, and having efpied some Object thro' the Sights, you need but turn the Instrument about, and obferve whether the aforsaid Object appears of the fame Height thro' the Sights •, and if it does, the Instrument is perfectly in equilibria : but if the Object appears a little higher or lower, you may remedy it by removing the Piece of Brass carrying the Ball 'till it be exactly in the Middle of the Point of Sufpenfion, and then it must be fixed with a Screw, because, by Ex- perience, the Instrument was found to be level.

Form ot a Cylinder, and going thro' a Ferrel, in which it is faftened by the Middle. This Ferrel has two flat Branches b b, one above, and the other below, each about a fourth Part of the Telescope in length. At the Ends of each of these two Branches are faftened little moving Pieces, which carry two Rings, by one of which the Telescope is fufpended to a Hook, at the End of the Screw 3 •, and by the other a pretty heavy Weight is fufpended, in order to keep the Telescope in equilibrio. This Weight hangs in the Box 5, which is almost filled with Linfeed Oil, Oil of Wallnuts, or any thing elle that will not coagulate, for more aptly fet- tling the Ballances of the Weight and Telescope.

This Instrument carries fometimes two Telescopes clofe, and very parallel to each other, the Eye-Glass of one being on one side, and the Eye-Glass of the other on the opposite side, that so one may fee on both sides, without turning the Level. If the Tube of the Telescope being fufpended, be not found level, as it will often happen, put a Ferrel or Ring 4 upon it, which may be flid along the Tube, for placing it level, and keeping it fo. And this must be, it there be two Telescopes.

There is a human Hair horizontally (trained and faftened to a little Fork in the Focus of the Object Glass of each Telescope, which may be raifed or lowered, by means of a little Screw, as has been already mentioned.

For proving this Level, having fufpended it by one of the Branches, obferve some distant Object through the Telescope, with the Weight not hung on, and very exactly mark the Point of the Object cut by the Hair of the Telescope : Now hanging the Weight on, if the horizontal Hair anfwers to the fame Point of the said Object, it is a fign the Center of Gravity of the Telescope and Weight, is precifely in a Right Line joining the two Points of Sufpenfion, which continued would pass thro' the Center of the Earth.

But if it otherwise happens, you must remedy it, by Aiding the little Ring backwards or forwards. Having thus adjufted the Telescope, that the fame Point of an Object be feen, as well before the Weight is hung on, as afterwards, you must turn it upfide down, by fuf- pending it to the Branch that was lowermost, and hanging the Weight upon the other. Then if the Hair in the Telescope cuts the aforsaid Point of the Object, it is .rnanifeft, that that

Point of the Object is in the horizontal Plane, with the Center of the Tube of the Telescope: but if the Hair does not cut that Point of the Object, it mud be raifed or lowered by means of the Screw 'till it does. Note, You must every now and then prove this Instrument, for fear lead some Alteration has happened thereto.

The Hook on which this Instrument is hung, is fixed to a flat wooden Crofs, at the Ends of each Arm of which, there is a Hook ferving to keep the Telescope from too much Agita- tion, when the Instrument is using, and for keeping it fteady when it is carrying, in lower- ing the Telescope by means of the Screw 3, which carries it.

There is applied to the said flat Crofs, another hollowed Crofs faftened with Hooks, Which ferves as a Cafe for the Instrument. But note, The two Ends of the Crofs are left open, that so the Telescope being covered from Wind and Rain, may be always in a Condition to ufe.

The Foot fupporting the Instrument, is a round Brass Plate fomething concave, to which is faftened three Brass Ferrels, moveable by means of Joints, wherein are Staves of a conve- nient Length put. The Box at the Bottom of the Level is placed upon this Plate, and may be any ways turned •, so that the Weight, which ought to be Brass, may have a free Motion in the Box, which must be (hut by means of a Screw, that so the Oil may be preferved in Journeys.

Confiruftion of another Level.

This Instrument is a Level almost like that whose Defcription we have last given, but it is Fig. L. eafier to carry from place to place.

Number 1. Is the Cafe in which the Telescope is enclofed.

2. Is a kind of Stirrup, where the Screw, ferving for the Point of Sufpenfion, paflcs ; at the End of which is a Hook, upon which the Ring, at the End of the Plate carrying the Telescope, is hung.

3. Are the Screws above and below for fixing the Telescope, when the Instrument is carry- ing.

4. Are the Hooks for keeping the Cafe (hut.

5. Is one End of the Telescope.

6. Is the End of the Plate whereon a great Brass Ball 7 is hung, ferving to keep the Tele- fcope level.

There are three Ferrels 8, well fixed to the Bottom of the Stirrup, ferving as a Foot to fupport the whole Instrument. Note, There are fometimes put two Telescopes on this Level, as well as in that other of which we have last fpoken.

CHAP. II.

Of the Uses of the aforsaid Instruments in Levelling,

T Evelling is an Operation (hewing the Height of one Place in refpect to another. One \j Place is said to be higher than another, when it is more distant from the Center of the Earth. A Line equally distant from the Center of the Earth, in all it's Points, is called the Line of true Level ; whence, because the Earth is round, that Line must be a Curve, and make a part of the Earth's Circumference, as the Line B C F G, all the Points of which are Fig. u equally distant from the Center A of the Earth: but the Line of Sight, which the Operations of Levels give, is a right Line perpendicular to the Semi-Diameter of the Earth A B, raifed above the true Level, denoted by the Curvature of the Earth, in proportion as it is more ex- tended •, for which Reason, the Operations which we (hall give, are but of the apparent Level, which must be corrected to have the true Level, when the Line of Sight exceeds 50 Toifes.

The following Table, in which are denoted the Corrections of the Points of apparent Level, for reducing them to the true Level, was calculated by help of the Semi-Diameter of the Earth, whose Length may be known by measuring one Degree of it's Circumference. The Gentlemen of the Academy of Sciences, have found by very exact Obfervations, that one De- gree of the Circumference of a great Circle of the Earth, as the Meridian, contains 57292 Toifes ; and giving 25 Leagues to a Degree, a League will be 2291 \-\ Toifes.

Now the whole Circumference of the Earth will be 9000 of the lame Leagues, and it's Di- ameter 2863 T 7 r of them ; from whence all Places on the Superficies of the Earth, will be di- ftant from it's Center 142 1 i* Leagues.

The Line A B reprefents the Semi-Diameter of the Earth, under the Feet or the (Jt&gt;- ferver. The right Line B D E, reprefents the vifual Ray, whose Points D and E are in the apparent Level of the Point B. This Line of apparent Level, ferves for determining a Line of true Level, which is done by taking from the Points of the Line of apparent LevJ, the Height they are above the true Level in refpect to a certain Point, as B ; for it plainly appears from the Figure, that all the Points D, E, of the apparent Level, are farther distant from the Center of the Earth, than the Point B ; and to find the Difference, you need but confider the right-angled Triangle A B D, whose two Sides AB, B D, being known, the Hypothe- nufe A D, may be found : from which fubftracting the Radius A C, the Remainder C D will fhew the Height of the Point D of apparent Level, above the Point of true Level.

A TABLE Jhewing the Corrections of the Points of apparent Level, for reducing them to the true Level, every 50 Toifes.

'The Rule ferving to calculate this Table, is to divide the Square of the Distance by the Diameter of the Earth, which is 6,565,179 Toifes ; for which Reason the Corrections are to one an- other, as the Squares of the Difiances. Altho' the Foundation of this Calculation be not fir icily Geometrical, yet it is nigh enough the Truth for PracJice.

If the Points of apparent Level mould be taken inflead of the Points of true Level, a Body would err in conducting the Water of a Source, which let be, for Example, at the Point B ; for this Source will not run along the Line B D E, but will remain in the Point B ; for if it mould run along the Line B E, it would run higher than it is, which is impoflible, be- caufe it cannot be endued with any other Figure but a Circular one, equally distant from the Center of the Earth. On the contrary, a Source in D will have a great Defcent down to the Point B ; but it cannot run further, because it must be elevated higher than the Source, if it continues it's way in the fame right Line, which cannot be done, unlefs it be forced by fome Machine.

How to reclify Levels.

Fig. 2. To rectify Levels, as, for Example, The Air-Level C you must plant two Staffs, as A B,

about 50 Toifes diflant from each other, because of the Roundnefs of the Earth (take care of exceeding that Distance)-, then efpying from the Station A, the Point B, the Level being placed horizontally, and the Bubble of Air being in the Middle of the Tube, you must raife or lower a Piece of Pafteboard upon the Staff B, in the Middle of which is drawn a black ho- rizontal Line, 'till the vifual Ray of the Obferver's Eye meets the said Line •, after which must be faftened another Piece of Pafteboard to the Staff A, the Middle of which let be the Height of the Eye, when the Piece of Pafteboard B was feen : then removing the Level to the Staff B, place it to the Height of the Center of the Pafteboard, and the Level being horizontally pofited for observing the Piece of Pafteboard A, if then the vifual Ray cuts the Middle of the Piece of Pafteboard, it is a fign the Level is very juft ; but if the vifual Ray falls above or below, as in the Point C, 'you must, by always keeping the Eye at the fame Height, lower the Telescope or the Sight, 'till the Middle of the vifual Ray falls upon the Middle of the Difference, as in D ; and the Telescope thus remaining, the Tube of the Level must be ad- jufted 'till the Bubble of Air fixes in the Middle, which may be done by means of the Screw 4.

Again •, Return to the Staff A, and place the Level the Height of the Point D, for looking at the Piece of Pafteboard B ; and if the vifual Ray falls upon the Middle of the Piece of Pafteboard, it is a fign the Telescope agrees with the Level : if not, the fame Operations must be repeated, until the vifual Rays fall upon the Centers of the two Pieces of Pafteboard.

Another way to reclify Levels.

Knowing two Points distant from each other, and perfectly level, place the End of the Telescope carrying the Eye-Glass to the exact Height of one of those two Points, the Bub- ble of Air being fixed in the Middle of it's Tube •, then by looking thro' it, if it happens that

the Hair of the Telescope cuts the fccond Point, it is a fign the Level is juft ; but if the Hair falls above or below the Point of Level, you must, in always keeping the Eye at the fame Height, raife or lower the End of the Level where the Object Glass is, until the Vifual Ray of the Telescope falls upon the exact Point of Level ; and leaving it thus, raife or deprefs the Tube carrying the Level, so that the Bubble of Air may remain in the Middle.

What we have said concerning the Rectification of this Level, may ferve likewise for the Rectification of others, the Difference is only to change the Plummets and the Hairs of the Telescopes, according to their Conftructions.

The Manner of Levelling.

To find, for Example, the Height of the Point A on the Top of a Mountain, above the Fig. %. Point B at it's foot, place the Level about the middle Distance between the two Points, as in D, and plant Staffs in A and B. Also let there be Perfons inftructed with Signals, for raifino- or lowering upon the said Staffs flit Sticks, at the Ends of which are fattened pieces of Pafte-Board : The Level being placed upon it's Foot, look towards the Staff A E, and caufe one of the Pcfons to raife or lower the Pafte-Board, until the upper Edge or Middle appears in the vifual Ray •, then measure exactly the perpendicular Height of the Point E above the Point A, which, in this Example, suppose 6 Feet 4 Inches, which fet down in a Memo- rial. Then turn the Level horizontally, so that it may always be at the fame Height, for the Eye-Glass of the Telescope to be next to the Eye •, but if it be a Sight Level, there is no ncceffity of turning it about, and caufe the Perfbn at the Staff "B to raife or lower the Piece of Pafte-Board, until the upper Edge of it be feen, as at C, which suppose 16 Feet 6 Inches, which fet down in the Memorial above the other Number of the first Station •, whence to know the Height of the Point A above the Point B, take 6 Feet 4 Inches from 16 Feet 2 Inches, and the Remainder will be 10 Feet 2 Inches, for the Heighth of A above B.

Note, If the Point D, where the Obferver is placed, be in the Middle between the Point A and the Point B, there is no neceffity of regarding the Height of the apparent Level above the true Level, because those two Points being equally distant from the Eye of the Ob- ferver, the vifual Ray will be equally raifed above the true Level, and confequently there needs no Correction to give the Height of the Point A above the Point B.

Another Example of Levelling.

It is required to Know, whether there be a fufficient Defcent for conducting Water from Fig. 4. the Source A to the Receptacle B of a Spring. Now because the Biftance from the Point A to B is great, there are several Operaiions required to be made. Having chosen a proper Height for placing the Level, as at the Point I, plant a Pole in the Point A near the Source, on which Aide up and down another, carrying the Piece of Pafte-Board L •, measure the Di- ftance from A to I, which suppose 1000 Toifes. Then the Level being adjufted in the Point K, let fomebody move the Pafte-Board L up or down, until you can efpy it thro' the Telescope or Sigfus of the Level, and measure the Height A L, which suppose 2 Toifes, 1 Foot, 5 Inches. But because the Distance A I is 1000 Toifes, according to the afore- mentioned Table, you must fubftract 1 1 Inches, and the Fleight A L will confequently be but 2 Toifes 6 Inches, which note down in the Memorial.

Now turn the Level about, so that the Object Glass of the Telescope may be next to the Pole planted in the Point H, and the Level being adjufted, caufe some Perfon to move the Piece of Pafte-Board G up and down, until the upper Edge of it may be efpied thro' the Telescope -, measure the Height H G, which suppose 3 Toifes, 4 Feet, 2 Inches ; measure likewise the Distance of the Points I, H, which suppose 650 Toifes ; tor which Distance, according to the Table, you must fubftract 4 Inches 8 Lines from the Fleight H G, which confequently will then be but 3 Toifes, 3 Feet, 9 Inches, 4 Lines, which fet down in the Memorial.

This being done, remove the Level to some other Eminence, from whence the Pole H G may be difcovered, and the Angle of the Houfe D, the Ground about which is level with the Receptacle B of the Spring.

The Level being adjufted in the Point E, look at the Staff FI, and the vifual Ray will give the Point F •, measure the Height H F, which suppose 11 Feet 6 Inches •, likewile mea- fure the Distance IT E, which suppose 500 Toifes, for which Distance the Table gives 2 In- ches 9 Lines of abatement, which being taken from the Fleight H F, and there will remain 11 Feet, 3 Inches, 3 Lines, which fet down in the Memorial. Laftly, Flaving turned the Level for looking at the Angle of the Houfe D, measure the Fleight of the Point D, where tne vifual Ray terminates above the Ground, which suppose S Feet 3 Inches. Meafure alio the Distance from the Point D, to the said Houfe, winch is 450 Toifes, for which Distance the Table gives 2 Inches 3 Lines 01 Abatement •, which being taken from the said Height, there will remain 8 Feet 9 Lines, which let down in the Memorial.

How to fet down all the different Heights in the Memorial

Having found proper Places (as we have already supposed) for placing the Level between two Points, you must write on the Memorial, in two different Columns, the observed Heights j namely, under the first Colum those observed by looking thro' the Telescope, when the Eye was next to the Source A ; and under the second Column, those observed when the Eye was next to the Receptacle B of the Spring, in the following Manner.

Having added together the Heights of the first Column, and afterwards those of the second,
fubftract the first Additions from the second.


Whence the Height of the Source A above the Receptacle B is 1 Toife and 10 Lines.

If the Distance be required, you need but add all the Distances measured together;

The whole Distance 2600 Toifes.

Laftly, Dividing the Defcent by the Toifes of the Distance, there will be for every 100
Toifes, about 2 Inches 9 Lines of Defcent, nighly.

X and is commonly a Rectangular Parallelepipedon of Brass well foldered, about a Foot long, 8 Inches broad, and as many in height, more or less, according to the Quantity of Water to be measured, having several round Holes very exactly drilled in it, an Inch in Di- ameter, and others for Half an Inch of Water to pass thro' ; and also others for a Quarter of an Inch of Water to pass thro' them. All of which ought to be drilled so as their Centers may be at the fame Height. The upper Extremes of the Inch-Holes must be within two Lines of the Top of the Gauge •, and the Holes are flopped with little square Brass Plates, ad- jufted in the Grooves 1, 2 and 3. There is a Brass Partition, crofting the Vessel at the Place 4, fixed about an Inch from the Bottom, and drilled with several Holes, for the Water to pass more freely. This Partition is made to receive the Shock of the Water falling from the Source into the Gauge, and hindring it from making Waves, so that it may more naturally run out thro' the Holes.

Note, The Holes which give a Cylindric Inch of Water, ought to be exactly 1 2 Lines in Diameter ; that giving half an Inch ought to be 8 j Lines, and that giving a Quarter of an Inch must be exactly 6 Lines. This may be eafily found by Calculation.

To use this Instrument, it must be placed so as it's Bottom may be parallel to the Horizon, and then let the Water of the Source run thro' a Pipe into the Gauge (as per Figure), and when it wants about a Line of the Top, open one of the Holes (for Example) of an Inch. Then if the Water always keeps the fame Height in the Gauge, it is manifest that there runs as much into it as goes out of it, and so the Source will furnifh an Inch of Water.

But if the Water in the Gauge riles, there must be another Hole opened, either of an Inch, half an Inch, or a Quarter of an Inch -, lb that the Water may keep to the fame Height in the Gau"-e, that is, to a Line above the Holes of an Inch ; and then the Number of Holes opened will give the Quantity of Water furnifhed by the Source.

The little Velsel receiving the Water running out of the Gauge, is to fhew how much Fig. N. Water the Source fyrnifhes in a determinate Space of Time : For having a Pendulum which Twines Seconds, note how many Seconds there will be in the Time that this VefTel, fet un- der the Hole giving an Inch of Water, is filling ; and exactly measuring the Quantity of Water it contains, you may have the Quantity of Water the Source furnifhes in an Hour.

There has several very exact Experiments been made upon this Subject : from whence it has been found, that a Source giving one Inch of Water, will fill 14 Pints of Paris, in a Minute.

it follows from hence, that an Inch of Water gives in an Hour 8 Paris Muids, and in 24 Hours, 72 Muids.

If, for Example, a Cubic Vessel be placed under the Gauge, containing a Cubic Foot •, and if the Water runs thro' the Hole giving an Inch of Water, that Vessel will be filled in two Minutes and a half: From whence it follows, that it gives 14 Pints in a Minute, because it furnifhed 35 Pints in two Minutes and a half.

By this means we may know the Inches of Water a Spring or Running-Stream gives : As if, for Example, the Spring gives 7 Pints of Water in a Second ; then it is said to furnifh an Inch of Water: If it mould give 21 Pints, then it is said to furnifh 3 Inches of Water •, and so of others.

To measure the Running-Water of an Aqueduct or River, which cannot be received in a Gauge, you must put a Ball of Wax upon the Water, made so heavy with some other Matter, as that there nay be but a small part of the Ball above the Surface of the Water, that so the Wind can have no power on it. And after having measured a Length of 15 or 20 Feet of the Aqueduct, you may know by a Pendulum in what time the Ball of Wax will be carried that Distance ; and afterwards multiplying the Breadth of the Aqueduct or River by the Height of the Water, and that Product by the Space which the Ball of Wax has moved, this last Product will give all the Water passed, in the noted Time, thro' the Section of the River. Example ; Suppose in an Aqueduct two Feet wide, and one Foot deepi a Ball of Wax moves, in 20 Seconds, 30 Feet, which will be one Foot and a half in a Second : But because the Water moves fwifter at the Top than the Bottom, you must take but 20 Feet, which will be one Foot in a Second •, the Product of one Foot deep, by 2 Feet broad, is 2 Feet, which multiplied by 20, the Length, gives 40 Cubic Feet, or 40 times 35 Pints of Water, which makes 1400 Pints in 20 Seconds ; and if 20 Seconds give 1400 Pints, 60 Seconds will give 4200 Pints-, and dividing 4200 by 14, which is the Number of Pints an Inch of Water gives, in a Minute or 60 Seconds, the Quotient 300 will be the Number of Inches which the Water of the Aqueduct furnifhes.

Mr Mariotte, who has learnedly wrote about the Motion of Water, is of opinion that Springs are nothing but Rain Water, which passing thro' the Earth, meets with Haffock or Clay, which it cannot penetrate •, and therefore is obliged to run along the Sides, and so form a Spring. For fupporting this Hypothefis, he brings the following Experi- ment.

Having fet a Cubic Vessel about a Foot high in a proper place to catch Rain- Water for ftveral Years, he observed that the Water arofe in the Vessel each Year, one with another, 1 8 Inches •, but he thought it better to make it but 1 5 Inches : whence a Toife will receive in a Year 45 Cubic Feet of Water; for multiplying 36 Feet by 15 Inches, the Product will be 45 Cubic Feet.

The fame Author likewise computes the Extent of Ground which fupplies the River Seine with Water ; and has found that the Seine is not the fixth Part as big as it might be. He has again observed, that it has but 10 Inches of Defcent in ioooToifes over-against the Inva- lids. He faith likewise, that, according to this fuppofition, the greateft Spring of Montmartre y when it is most abounding, doth not furnifh over and above Water, since the Ground over- whelming it ought to fend Water thereto. Whence he concludes, that there is a great deal of Water loft in the Earth.

To know the Shock Water produces, Experience has fhewn that Water accelerates it's Motion, according to the odd Numbers 1, 3, 5, 7, i£c. that is, if in a fourth Part of a Second it defcends one Foot in a Pipe, it will defcend 3 Feet in the next fourth of a Second.

The Quantities of Water fpouting out thro' equal Holes made at the Bottoms of Referva- tories, of different Heights, are to each other in the fubduplicate Ratio of the Heights. The following Table fhews the different Expences of Water at different Heights.

A Table of the Expence of Water thro 1 different Ajutages at the fame Height of the Refer- vatory.

You may fee by this Table, that an Ajutage *, double another in Diameter, will expend four times the Water as that other will. Example ; That of three Lines will expend in a Minute 14 Pints, and that of 6 Lines will expend §6 Pints. Note, The Ajutages mull not be made Conical, but Cylindrical.

Construction of the Callipers.

Fig. O. f I A HIS Inflrument is made of two Branches of Brass, about fix or 7 Inches long when X. mut, each Branch being four Lines broad, and three in Thicknefs. The Motion of the Head thereof is like that of the Head of a two-Foot Rule, and the Ends of the Branches are bent inwards, and furnifhed with Steel at the Extremes.

There is a Kind of Tongue faftened to one of the Branches, whose Motion is like that of the Head, for raifing or lowering it, that so it's End, which ought to be very thin, may be put into Notches made in the other Branch, on the Infide of which are marked the Di- meters anfwerable to the Weights of Iron Bullets, in this Manner : Having gotten a Rule, on which are denoted the Divisions of the Weights, and the Bores of Pieces (the Method of dividing which will be fhewn in fpeaking of the next Inflrument), open the Callipers, fo that the inward Ends may anfwer to the Distance of each Point of the Divisions fhewing the Weights of Bullets : And then make a Notch at each Opening with a triangular File, that fo the End of the Tongue entering into each of these Notches, may fix the Opening of the Branches exactly to each Number of the Weights of Bullets. We commonly make Notches for the Diameters of Bullets weighing from one fourth of a Pound to 48 Pounds, and fome- times to 64 Pounds. And then Lines mufl be drawn upon the Surface of this Branch againfl the Notches, upon which must be kt the correfpondent Numbers denoting the Pounds.

The Use of this Inflrument is eafy, for you need but apply the two Ends of the Branches to the Diameter of the Bullet to be measured ; and then the Tongue being put in a conve- nient Notch, will fhew the Weight of the Bullet.

There ought always to be a certain Proportion observed in the Breadth of the Points of this Inflrument ; so that making an Angle (as the Figure fhews) at each Opening, the Infide may give the Weight of Bullets, and the Outfide the Bores of Pieces ; that is, that applying the outward Ends of those Points to the Diameter of the Mouths of Cannon, the Tongue, being placed in the proper Notch, may fhew the Weights of Bullets proper for them.

Conjlruftion of the Gunners Square.

F) 2- p * This Square ferves to elevate or lower Cannons or Mortars, according to the Places they

are to be levelled at, and is made of Brass, one Branch of which is about a Foot long, 8 Lines broad, and one Line in Thicknefs ; the other Branch is 4 Inches long, and of the fame Length and Breadth as the former. Between these Branches there is a Quadrant divided into 90 Deg. beginning from the fhortefl Branch, furnifhed with a Thread and Plummet.

The Use of this Instrument is eafy, for there is no more to do but to place the longed Branch in the Mouth of the Cannon or Mortar, and elevate or lower it, 'till the Thread cuts the Degrees neceffary to hit a proposed Object. .

There are likewise very often denoted, upon one of the Surfaces of the lono-eft Branch, the Division of Diameters and Weights of Iron Bullets, as also the Bores of Pieces.

The making of this Division is founded upon one or two Experiments, in examinino-, with all poflible Exactnefs, the Diameter of a Builet, whose Weight is very exactly known. For Example, having found that a Bullet, weighing four Pounds, is three Inches in Diame- ter, it will be eafy to make a Table of the Weights and Diameters of any other Bullets, because, -per Prop. 18. lib. 12. EucL Bullets are to one another as the Cubes of their Diame- ters ; from whence it follows, that the Diameters are as the Cube Roots of Numbers, ex- prtffing their Weights.

Now having found, by Experience, that a Bullet, weighing four Pounds, is three Inches in Diameter ; if the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 32 Pounds be required, fay, by the Rule of Three, As 4 is to 32, So is 27, the Cube of 3, to a fourth Number, which will be 216; whose Cube Root, 6 Inches, will be the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 32 Pounds.

Or otherwise, feek the Cube Root of these two Numbers 4 and 32, or 1 and 8, which are in the fame Proportions, and you will find 1 is to 2, As 3 is to 6, which is the fame as before.

But since all Numbers have not exact Roots, the Table of homologous Sides of similar So- lids (in the Treatife of the Sector) may be used. If now, by help of that Table, the Dia- meter of an Iron Bullet, weighing 64 Pounds, be required, make a Rule of Three, whose first Term is 397, the Side of the fourth Solid •, the second 3 Inches, or 36 Lines, the Dia- meter of the Bullet weighing four Pounds \ and the third Term 1000, which is the Side of the 64th Solid : the Rule being finifhed, you will have 90 4 Lines for the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 64 Pounds. Afterwards to facilitate the Operations of other Rules of Three, always take, for the first Term, the Number 1000, for the second 90 4 Lines, and for the third the Number found in the Table, over against the Number exprelTing the Weight of the Bullet. As to find the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 24 Pounds, fay, As 1000 is to 90 4 Lines, So is 721, to 65 Lines, which is 5 Inches and 5 Lines for the Diameter fought. By this Method the following Table is calculated.

which ferve to take the Diameters of Bullets, and then to find their Weights, by applying the Diameters on the Divisions of the before- mentioned Rule. But when you would know the Bores of Pieces, the curve Points must be taken off, and the ftrait ones put on, with which the Diameters of the Mouths of Cannon must be taken, and afterwards they must be applied to the Line of the Bores of Pieces, which is also fet down upon the aforsaid Rule •, by which means the Weights of the Bullets, proper for the proposed Cannon, may be found.

Conflruclion of an Infirument to level Cannon and Mortars.

Fl S- R - This Instrument is made of a Triangular Brass Plate, about four Inches high, at the Bot-

tom of which is a Portion of a Circle, divided into 45 Degrees •, which Number is fufficient for the higheft Elevation of Cannon or Mortars, and for giving Shot the greateft Range, as hereafter will be explained. There is a Piece of Brass fcrewed on the Center of this Portion of a Circle, by which means it may be fixed or movable, according to Neceffity.

The End of this Piece of Brass must be made fo, as to ferve for a Plummet and Index, in order to (hew the Degrees of different Elevations of Pieces of Artillery. This mftrument hath also a Brass Foot to fet upon Cannon or Mortars, so that when the Pieces of Cannon or Mortars are horizontal, the whole Infirument will be perpendicular.

The Use of this Infirument is very eafy •, for place the Foot thereof upon the Piece to be elevated, in such manner that the Point of the Plummet may fall upon a convenable Degree, and this is what we call levelling of a Piece.

Of the Artillery Foot-Level.

Fig. S. The Infirument S is called a Foot-Level, and we have already fpoken of it's Conflruction ;

but when it is used in Gunnery, the Tongue, ferving to keep it at right Angles, is divided into 90 Degrees, or rather into twice 45 Degrees from the Middle. The Thread, carrying the Plummet, is hung in the Center of the aforsaid Divisions, and the two Ends of the Branches are hollowed, so that the Plummet may fall perpendicular upon the Middle of the Tongue, when the Infirument is placed level.

To use it, place the two Ends upon the Piece of Artillery, which may be raifed to a pro- pofed Height, by means of the Plummet, whose Thread will give the Degrees.

Upon the Surface of the Branches of this Square, which opens quite ftrait like a Rule, are fet down the Weights and Diameters of Bullets, and also the Bores of Pieces, as we have be- fore explained in fpeaking of the Gunner's Square.

Fig. T. The Infirument T is likewise for levelling Pieces of Artillery, being almost like R, except

only the Piece, on which are the Divisions of Degrees, is movable, by means of a round Rivet : that is, the Portion of the Circle (or Limb) may be turned up and adjufted to the Branch, so that the Infirument takes up less room, and is eafier put in a Cafe. The Figure thereof is enough to fhew it's Conflruction, and it's Uses are the fame as those of the prece- dent Infirument.

Explanation of the Effecls of Cannon and Mortars.

Fig. V. The Figure V reprefents a Mortar upon it's Carriage, elevated and disposed for throwing

a Bomb into a Citadel, and the Curve-Line reprefents the Path of the Bomb thro' the Air, from the Mouth of the Piece to it's Fall. This Curve, according to Geometricians, is a Pa- rabolic Line, because the Properties of the Parabola agree with it ; for the Motion of the Bomb is compofed of two Motions, one of which is equal and uniform, which the Fire of the Powder gives it, and the other is an uniform accelerate Motion, communicated to it by it's proper Gravity. There arifes, from the Composition of these two Forces, the fame Pro- portion, as there is between the Portions of the Axis and the Ordinates of a Parabola ; as is very well demonftrated by M. BlondeU in his Book, entitled, The Art of throwing Bombs.

Maltus, an Englifh Engineer, was the first that put Bombs in practice in France, in the Year 1634, all his Knowledge was purely experimental ; he did not, in the least, know the Nature of the Curve they defcribe in their Paffage thro' the Air, nor their Ranges, according to dif- ferent Elevations of Mortars, which he could not level but tentively, by the Eflimation he made of the Distance of the Place he would throw the Bomb to ; according to which he gave his Piece a greater or less Elevation, feeing whether the first Ranges were juft or not, in order to lower his Mortar, if the Range was too little ; or raife it, if it was too great ; using, for that effect, a Square and Plummet, almost like that of which we have already fpoken.

The greateft Part of Officers, which have ferved the Batteries of Mortars since Maltus's Time, have used his Elevations ; they know, by Experience, nearly the Elevation of a Mor- tar to throw a Bomb to a given Distance, and augment or diminish this Elevation in propor- tion, as the Bomb is found to fall beyond or fhort of the Distance of the Place it is required to be thrown in.

Yet there are certain Rules, founded upon Geometry, for finding the different Range?, not only of Bombs, but likewise of Cannon, in all the Sorts of Elevations ; for the Line, de- fcribed in the Air by a Bullet mot from a Cannon, is also a Parabola in all Projections, not only oblique ones, but right ones, as the Figure W fhews.

A Bullet going out of a Piece, will never proceed in a ftraight Line towards the Place it is levelled at, but will rife up from it's Line of Direction the Moment after it is out of the Mouth of the Piece. For the Grains of Powder nigheft the Breech, taking fire first, prefs forward, by their precipitated Motion, not only the Bullet, but likewise those Grains of Powder which follow the Bullet along the Bottom of the Piece -, where fuccefllvely taking fire, they ftrike as it were the Bullet underneath, which, because of a neceffary Vent, hat not the fame Diameter as the Diameter of the Bore : and so infenfibJy raife the Bullet to- wards the upper Edge of the Mouth of the Piece, against which it so rubs in going out, that Pieces very much used, and whose Metal is foft, are observed to have a confiderable Canal there, gradually dug by the Friction of Bullets. Thus the Bullet going from the Cannon, as from the Point E, raifes itfelf to the Vertex of the Parabola G, after which it defcends by a mixed Motion towards B.

Ranges, made from an Elevation of 45 Deg. are the greater!, and those made from Ele- vations equally distant from 45 Deg. are equal •, that is, a Piece of Cannon, or a Mortar, levelled to the 40th Deg. will throw a Bullet, or Bomb, the fame Distance, as when they are elevated to the 50th Degree ; and as many at 30 as 60, and so of others, as appears in Fig. X. . Fig. X.

The first who reasoned well upon this Matter, was GaliUus, chief Engineer to the Great Duke of Tufcany, and after him Torricellius his Succeffor.

They have fhewn, that to find the different Ranges of a Piece of Artillery in all Eleva- tions, we must, before all things, make a very exact Experiment in firing off a Piece of Cannon or Mortar, at an Angle well known, and measuring the Range made, with all the Exactnefs poffible : for by one Experiment well made, we may come to the Knowledge of all the others, in the following Manner.

To find the Range of a Piece at any other Elevation required, fay, As the Sine of double the Angle under which the Experiment was made, is to the Sine of double the Angle of an Elevation proposed, So is the Range known by Experiment, to another.

As suppose, it is found by Experiment that the Range of a Piece elevated to 30 Deg. is 1000 Toifes : to find the Range of the fame Piece with the fame Charge, when it is elevated to 45 Deg. you must take the Sine of 60 Degrees, the double of 30, and make it the first Term of the Rule of Three ; the second Term must be the Sine of 90, double 45 •, and the third the given Range 1000: Then the fourth Term of the Rule will be found 1155, the Range of the Piece at 45 Degrees of Elevation.

If the Angle of Elevation proposed be greater than 45 Deg. there is no need of doubling it for having the Sine as the Rule directs •, but inftead of that, you must take the Sine of double it's Complement to 90 Degrees: As, suppose the Elevation of a Piece be 50 Degrees, the Sine of 80 Degrees, the double of 40 Deg. must be taken.

But if a determinate Distance to which a Shot is to be caft, is given (provided that Distance be not greater than the greateft Range at 45 Deg. of Elevation), and the Angle of Elevation to produce the proposed Effect be required •, as suppose the Elevation of a Cannon or Mortar is required to caft a Shot 800 Toifes ; the Range found by Experiment must be the first Term in the Rule of Three, as for Example 1000 Toifes-, the proposed Distance 800 Toifes, must be the second Term ; and the Sine of 60 Degrees, the third Term. The fourth Term being found, is the Sine of 43 Deg. 52 Min. whose half 21 Deg. §6 Min. is the Angle of Elevation the Piece must have, to produce the proposed Effect -, and if 21 Deg. 56 Min. be taken from 90 Deg. you will have 68 Deg. 4 Min. for the other Elevation ot the Piece, with which also the fame Effect will be produced.

For greater Facility, and avoiding the Trouble of finding the Sines of double the Angles of propofjd Elevations, Galil&lt;eus and 'Torricellius have made the following Table, in which the Sines of the Angles fought are immediately feen.

The Use of this Table is thus : Suppose it be known by Experience, that a Mortar ele- vated 15 Degrees, charged with three Pounds of Powder, throws a Bomb at the Difhance of 350 Toifes, and it is required with the fame Charge to caft a Bomb 100 Toifes further; feek in the Table the Number anfwering to 15 Degrees, and you will find 5000. Then form a Rule of Three, by faying, As 350 is to 450, So is 5000 to a fourth Number, which will be 6428. Find this Number, or the nigheft approaching to it, in the Table, and you will find it next to 20 Deg. or 70 Deg. which will produce the required Effect, and so of others.

\ joined together by a Rivet in such a Manner, that one may move quite round the other. The Head or End of one of these Pieces is cut Circular, and the Plead of the other .Semi- Circular, the Center of which being the Center of the Rivet. The Length of each of those Pieces from the Center of the Rivet is fix Inches •, so that when the Callipers are quite opened, they are a Foot long.

One half of the Circumference of the Circular Plead, is divided into every 2 Degrees, every tenth of which are numbered. And on part of the other half, beginning from the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, when the Points of the Callipers are clofe together, are Di- vifions from 1 to 10, each of which are likewise fubdivided into four Parts. The Use of these Divisions and Subdivifions, is, that when you have taken the Diameter of any round thing, as a Cannon-Bali, not exceeding 10 Inches, the Diameter ot the Semi-Circle will, amongfl those Divisions, give the Length of that Diameter taken between the Points of the Callipers in Inches and 4th Parts.

From this Use, it is manifest how the aforsaid Divisions for Inches may be eafily made : For, first, fet the Points of the Callipers together, and then make a Mark for the Beginning of the Divisions •, then open the Points one fourth of an Inch, and where the Diameter or the Semi-Circle cuts the Circumference, make a Mark for one fourth of an Inch. Then open the Points half an Inch, and where the Diameter of the Semi-Circle cuts the Circumfe- rence, make another Mark for half an Inch. In this Manner proceed for all the other Subdi- vifions and Divisions to Ten,

Upon one of the Branches, on the fame Side the Callipers, are, First, half a Foot or fix Inches, each fubdivided into ten Parts : Secondly, a Scale of unequal Divisions, beginning at two, and ending at ten, each of which are fubdivided into four Parts. The Conltruclion of this Scale or Lines will be very evident, when it's Use is fiiewn, which is thus : If you have a Mind to find how many Inches, under 10, the Diameter of any Concave, as the Diameter of the Bore of any Piece of Ordnance is in length, you must open the Branches of the Cal- lipers, so that the two Points may be outwards ; then taking the Diameter between the laid Points fee what Division, or Subdivifion, the outward Edge of the Branch with the Semi- circular Plead, cuts on the aforsaid Scale of Lines, and that will be the Number of Inches, or Parts, the Diameter of the Bore of the Piece is in Length. Therefore the Divisions on this Scale may be made in the fame Manner as I have before directed, in fiiewing how to make die Divisions for finding the Diameters of round Convex Bodies.

Thirdly, The two other Scales of Lines on the fame Face of the fame Branch, mew when
the Diameter of the Bore of a Piece of Cannon is taken with the Points of the Callipers
outward, the Name of the Piece, whether Iron or Brass, that is, the Weight of the Bullets
rhev carry, or such and such a Pounder, from 42 Pounds to 1. The ConftrucYion of these
Scales are from experimental Tables in Gunnery.

On the other Branch, the fame Side of the Callipers, is, First, fix Inches, every of which is
fubdivided into 10 Parts. Secondly, A Table fhewing the Weight of a Cubic Foot of Gold,
Quick-filver, Lead, Silver, Copper, Iron, Tin, Purbec-Stovie, Chryftal, Brimftone, Water,
Wax, Oil, and dry Wood.

On the other Side of the Callipers, is a Line of Chords to about three Inches Radius, and Fig. %\
a Line of Lines on both Branches, the fame as on the Sector.

There is also a Table of the Names of the following Species of Ordnance, viz. a Falconet, a Falcon, a Three-Pounder, a Minion, a Sacker, a Six- Pounder, an Eight-Pounder, a Deml- Culverin, a Twelve-Pounder, a Whole-Culverin, a Twenty-four-Pounder, a Demi-Cannon, Baflard-Cannon, and a Whole-Cannon. Under these are the Quantities of Powder neceffary for each of their Proofs, and also for their Service.

Upon the fame Face is a Hand graved, and a Right Line drawn from the Finger towards the Center of the Rivet. Which Right Line Ihews, by cutting certain Divisions made on the Circle, the Weight of Iron-fhot, when the Diameters are taken with the Points of the Cal- lipers, if they are of the following Weights, viz. 42, 32, 24, 18, 12, 9, 6, 4, 3, 2, 1, 1 ', j, Pounds. Thefe Figures are not all fet to the Divisions on the Circumference, tor avoiding Confufion. The aforsaid Divisions on the Circumference may be thus made : First, When the Points of the Callipers are clofe, continue the Line drawn from the Finger on the Limb, to reprefent the Beginning of the Divisions. Now, because from Experience it is found, that an Iron Ball or Globe weighing one Pound is 1.8 of an Inch, open the Callipers, so that the Distance between the two Points may be 1.8 of an Inch ; and then, where the Line drawn from the Finger cuts the Circumference, make a Mark for the Division 1. Again, to find where the Division 1.5 must be, fay, As 1 is to the Cube of 1.8, So is 1.5 to the Cube of the Diameter of an Iron Ball weighing 1.5 Pounds, whose Root extracted will give 2.23 Inches. Therefore open the Points of the Callipers, so that they may be 2.23 Inches distant from each other ; and then, where the Line drawn from the Finger cuts the Circumference, make a Mark for the Division 1 \ . The Reason of this is, because the Weights of Homogeneous Bodies, are to each other as their Magnitudes ; and the Magnitudes of Globes and Spheres, are to each other as the Cubes of their Diameters.

Proceed in the aforsaid Manner, in always making 1 the first Term of the Rule of Three, and the Cube of 1.8 the second, &c. and all the Divisions will be had.

Upon the Circle or Head, on the fame Side of the Callipers, are graved several Geometrical Figures, with Numbers fet thereto. There is a Cube whose Side is supposed to be 1 Foot, or 12 Inches, and a Pyramid of the fame Base and Altitude over it: On the Side of the Cube is graved 470, fignifying that a Cubic Foot of Iron weighs 470 Pounds •, and on the Pyramid is graved 156 -*-, fignifying that the Weight of it is so many Pounds.

The next is a Sphere, supposed to be inferibed in a Cube of the fame Dimenfions, as the former Cube, in which is writ 246^, which is the Weight of that Sphere or Iron. The next is a Cylinder, the Diameter and Altitude of which is equal to the Side of the aforsaid Cube, and a Cone over it, of the fame Base and Altitude; there is fet to the Cylinder 369 - 1 .,, fig- nifying, that a Cylinder of Iron of that Bignefs, weighs 369 - t ? T , and to the Cone 121 T -2-o&gt; fignilying, that a Cone of Iron of that Bignefs weighs 121 ^^ Pounds.

The next is a Cube inferibed in a Sphere of the fame Dimenfions as the aforsaid Sphere. There is fet to it the Number 90 -?, fignifying, that a Cube of Iron inferibed in the said Sphere, weighs 90 J - Pounds.

^ The next is a Circle inferibed in a Square, and a Square in that Circle, and again a Circle in the latter Square. There is fet thereto the Numbers 2S, n, 22, and 14, fignifying, that if the Area of the outward Square be 28, the Area of it's inferibed Circle is 22, and the Area of the Square inferibed in the Circje 14, and the Area of the Circle inferibed in the latter Square 1 1 .

The next and last, is a Circle croffed with two Diameters at Right Angles, having in it the Numbers 7, 22, 113 and 355 ; the two former of which reprefent the Proportion of the Diameter of a Circle to it's Circumference ; and the two latter also the Proportion of the Dia- meter to the Circumference. But fomething nearer the Truth.

I have already, as it were, fhewn the Uses of this Instrument ; but only of the Degrees on the Head, which are to take the Quantity of an Angle, the manner of doing which is eafy : For if the Angle be an inward Angle, as the Corner of a Room, &c. apply the two outward Edges of the Branches to the Walls or Planes forming the Angles, and then the Degrees cut by the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, will fhew the Quantity of the Angle fought. But if the Angle be an outward Angle, as the Corner of a Houfe, &c. you mu ft open the Branches 'till the two Points of the Callipers are outwards ; and then apply the ftraight Edges of the Branches to the Planes, or Walls, and the Degrees cut by the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, will be the Quantity of the Angle fought, reckoning from 180 towards the Right-Hand.

Taken from the Aftronomical Tables of M. de la Hire, and the Obfervations of the Academy of Sciences*

E Quadrants used by Astronomers for Celeftial Obfervations, arc

fually three Feet, or three Feet and a half (of Paris) Radius, that fo

they may be eafily managed and carried from Place to Place. Their

Limbs are divided into Degrees and Minutes, that so Obfervations made

with them may be very exact.

This Instrument is compofed of several pretty thick Iron or Brass Rulers, whose Breadths ought to be parallel to it's PJane. There are moreover other Iron or Brass Rulers, so adjufted and joined behind the former ones, that their Breadths are perpendicular to the Plane of the Quadrant. Thefe Rulers are joined together by Screws, by means of which the whole Conjunction of the Instrument is made, which ought to be very ftrait every way, firm, and pretty weighty. The Limb is likewise ftrengthened with a curved Brass, or Iron Ruler. There is a thick strong circular Blade placed in the Center, ferving for the Uses hereafter mentioned ; which circular Blade and the Limb must be railed fomething higher than the Plane of the Instrument, both of which must be covered with well-polifhed thin Pieces of Brass. But you must take great care that the Surfaces of these Pieces of Brass be both in the fame Plane.

The aforsaid circular Iron Blade in the Center must have a round Hole in the Middle thereof, about '- of an Inch in Diameter, in which is placed a well-turned Brass Cylinder, raifed fomething above the central thin Piece of Brass.

This Cylinder, which is reprefented in Figure 2, hath the Point of a very fine Needle ad- jufted in the Center of it's Base, which is fupported in going into a little Hole in the Center of the Base, and by lying along a femi-circular Cavity, and is kept therein by means of a little Spring preffing against it ; so that when the Needle is taken away, and we have a Mind to put it there again, it may exactly be placed in the little Hole in the Center of the laid Cy- linder. This little Hole ought to be no bigger than a Hair, but it must be fomething deep, that so the Point of the Needle may go far enough into it, that at the making of the Qua- drant it may not come out. At the Point of this Needle is hung a Hair, by means of a Ring made with the fame Hair big enough, for fear left the Knot of the Ring fliould touch the central Plate, and the Motion of the Hair be difturbed. Note, The Base of the cen- tral Cylinder A, reprefented in this Figure, must be such, that the Ring of the Hair, hung on the Point of the Needle, may not touch the said Base otherwise than in it's Center, when there is a Plummet hung to the End of the Hair, of about half an Ounce in weight.

The Conftruction of this central Cylinder ought to be such, that it may be taken away and preferved, and another placed inftead thereof, of the fame Thicknefs therewith, but fomething longer; which coming out beyond the central Blade, fuftains the Ruler of the In- ftrument, in luch manner as we are going to explain.

There is moreover, at the central Brass Blade, which covers the Iron one, a plane Rino- F 'g- 3- A, turning about the Center, but not touching the central Cylinder •, in such manner, that

the outward Surface thereof is even with the Surface of the laid Brass Blade. Upon this Ring is fattened, with two Screws, a flat Tube M, which moves freely along with the Hair and Plummet, which it covers, and so preferves it from the Wind when the Instrument is using.

This Tube carries a Glass, placed against the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant, in order to fee what Point of Division the Hair falls upon. Behind, and nigh to, the Center of Gravity of the Quadrant, is firmly fixed, with three or four Screws, to the Rulers of the Instrument, the Iron Cylinder I, whose Length is 8 Inches, and Diameter of it's Base two Inches. This Cylinder being perpendicular to the Plane of the Quadrant, may be called it's Axis.

Now because the principal Use of this Instrument is for taking the Altitudes of the Sun or Stars, it must be so ordered, that it's Plane may be eafily placed in a vertical Situation ; f'g- 4. therefore an Iron Ruler M N must be prepared, whole Thicknefs is three Lines, Length

eight Inches, and Breadth one Inch, or thereabouts. On one Side of this Ruler are ad- jufted two Iron Rings Z Z, open a-top with Ears, each of which has a Screw to draw the Ears clofer together, which have a Spring. The Bignefs of these Rings is nearly equal to the Thicknefs of the Cylinder I, or Axis of the Quadrant, which being put thro' them, is made faft with the Screws ; so that the Axis and Quadrant, which it is fixed to, may remain firm in any Pofition the Quadrant is put into.

On the other Side of the said Ruler M N is foldered an Iron Cylinder O, of such a Length and Breadth, as to go into the Tube Q^, of which we are going to fpeak.

Now when the Instrument is to be placed fo, that it's Plane may be horizontal, for using an Index or moveable Arm to take the Distances of Stars or Places upon Earth, the Cylinder I. must be put into the Tube Q^, by which means the Quadrant may be eafily turned to what part you pleafe. Fig. 5. The Foot, or Support of the whole Instrument, is commonly compofed of an Iron Tube

Qj whose upper Part is capable of containing the Cylinder O, and it's lower Part goes thro' the Middle of an Iron Crofs, and is fattened in it by four Iron Arms, at the four Ends of which Crofs are four great Screws, to raife or lower the Quadrant, and put it in a convenient Situation. But Monfieur de la Hire propofes a Triangular Support in his Tables, which is compofed of an Iron or Brass Tube, big enough to contain the Cylinder O, fattened with two Screws to three Iron Rulers R S, bent towards their Tops, and of a pretty good Thicknefs, which are adjufted and well fixed to a Tee or double Square T X Y. The Screw V, in the Middle of the Tube Qj is for fixing the Cylinder O, according to Ne- ceflity.

Now when the Meridian Altitudes of Stars are to be observed, the Ruler T Y ought to be placed in the Meridian Line, and of the three Screws T X Y, which fuftain the Weight of the whole Instrument; that which is in X ferves to lower the Plane of the Instrument, 'till it anfwers to the Plane of the Meridian, according as the Obferver would have it; and the other two are for raifing or lowering the Instrument by little and little, until the Plumb- Line falls upon the requifite Altitude. But it often happens in turning the Screws that are in T and Y, that the Quadrant difplaces'itfelf from it's true Poficion ; whence, if the Defect be some Minutes, this may be remedied, by hanging a moveable Weight to the Back- side of. the Branches of the Instrument, which may alter the Center of Gravity, as likewise change the Inclination of the Quadrant; for the Rulers compofing the Foot are not entirely free trom Elasticity. Now the nigher to the Foot the Place of Sufpenfion of the Weight is, the less Force will it have to fhake the Instrument. Note, The Fleight of the Foot is com- monly four Feet and a half, or thereabouts, and the fame Use is equally made of the four Branch Support.

Thie Divisions on the Limb of this Quadrant ought to be made with great Care, that fo Obfervations may thereby be exactly taken. Each Degree is divided into 60 Minutes, by Fig. 6. means of n concentrick Circles, and 6 Diagonal right Lines, as in Figure 6 may be feen.

Thefe Diagonal Distances are equal between themfelves, but those of the Concentrick Cir- cles are unequal ; yet this Inequality is not fenfible, if the Radius of the Quadrant be three Feet, and the Distance between the two outmost concentrick Circles be one Inch ; for if the Arc A E, of the outmost Circle be 10 Minutes, and there are drawn, from the Center C of the Quadrant, the Radii A DC, EBC, meeting the inner concentrick Circle in the Points D, B, the Arc D B will be likewise 10 Minutes. Note, Figure 6 is supposed to be put up- on the Limb of the Instrument, Figure 1.

But if the Right-lined Diagonals A B, D E, are drawn interfecting each other in the Point F ; I lay F is the middle Point or Division thro' which the middle Circle ought to pass : For the Arcs A E, B D, which may be taken for firait Lines, are to each other, as A F is to FB : for it is evident, that C A is to C B, as the Divisions of the Base AB of the Right- lined Triangle ACB; bur since C A is to C B as A E is to D B, therefore A E is toDB, as the Divisions of the Base A B made by a Radius, bifccting the Angle A C B : and confe- quently the Point F, before found in the Right-lined Diagonal AB, will be the middle Point of the Divisions.

Now let us suppose, that A C be to C B, as 36 Inches is to 35 ; then A B is to A F, as 71 is to 36. Therefore if the Breadth of one Inch, or 12 Lines, which is the supposed Mea- fure of A B, be divided into 71 equal Parts, the Part AF will be 36 of them, which will be greater by half, or about -j- 1 . of a Line, than half of A B, which is but 35 4. This Diffe- rence is of no confequence, and may, without any fenfible Error, be neglected in the Division of the Middle ; and much more in the other Divisions, where it is less.

Inftead of making Right-Jined Liagonals, we may make them Portions of Circles palling thro' the Center of the Inftrumcnt, and the first and last Point of the fame Diagonal-, then we need but divide the firll Circular Portion into ten equal Parts, and the exact Points will be had thro' which the eleven Concentrick Circles must pais.

The Radius of this firll: Portion may be eafily found ; and then if a thin Ruler be bent into the Curvature thereof, all the other Portions may be drawn by means of it, as we have already mentioned in fpeaking of the Divisions of Quadrants, Semi-Circles, &c.

Note, It will be proper to leave, at the Bottom of the Limb, the Points that were made for drawing every 10th A'linute ; for these will be a means to take the Correfpondent Alti- tudes of the Sun, Morning and Evening, much exacter than can be done by the Diagonals, because of the Eftimation thereby avoided. Moreover, there may be some fault in the Dia- gonals which there cannot be in the Points, if care be taken in making them : for it is diffi- cult enough to draw the Diagonals exactly thro' those Points they fhould pass. For which reason, if a Micrometer be joined to the fixed Telescope of the Instrument, the Diagonals need not be used, and the aforsaid Points will be fufficient ; since the Micrometer will give, by means of a moveable Hair, the Interval between the neaRest of one of the aforsaid Points, at every 10th Minute, and the Plummet. And this is done by raifing or lowering the moveable Hair above or below the horizontal Hair, 10 Minutes of a Degree, or a little more. The Chevalier de Louville, of the Academy of Sciences, hath fatisfactorily used a Quadrant for his Obfervations, conftructed in this Manner.

We now come to fpeak of the Telcfcopes, and the Manner of finding the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant.

Thefe Telescopes have each two Glaffcs, one of which is the Object-Glass, placed towardsthe vifible Object, and near to the Center of the Quadrant ; and the other is the Eye-Glass,placed at the other End or the Telescope, next to the Eye of the Obferver.

The Object-Glass is firmly fattened in an Iron Frame, which is fixed with Screws about the Center of the Instrument. Near the Eye-Glass are placed two fine Hairs, croffing each other at Right An-ies, in an iron Frame, to which they are fattened with Wax upon a little piece of Brass ; so that the one is perpendicular to the Plane of the Instrument, and the other parallel thereto.

The Eye-Glass must be placed in a Tube, that so it may be moved backwards or forwards, according to different Sights •, and the Distance between the Object-Glass and Crofs-Hairs, must be the said Glass's Focal Length ; that is, the Crofs-Hairs must be placed in the Focus of the Object-Glass. Thefe Telescopes must be so disposed, that the Surfaces of the Lenses (as Planes) and the Planes in which are the Crofs-Hairs, be parallel to each other, and per- pendicular to Right Lines drawn thro' the Centers of the Lenses, and the Points wherein the Flairs crofs each other. Thefe Telescopes are adjufted behind the Quadrant, that so the divided Brass- Limb may not be incumbered by them.

Between the Frames fuftaining the Glasses, is a Brass or Iron Tube, compofed of two Parts, one of which is inchafed in the other, that so they may eafily be taken from between the Frames, by means of Ferrels keeping them together.

The Convex Eye-Lens mutt be brought nearer, or removed further from the Crofs-Hairs, according to the diverfe Conftitutions of Obfervators Eyes ; that so distant Objects may be diftinctly perceived, as likewise the Crofs-Hairs. This Eye-Glass is placed in another little moveable Tube, the greateft part of which lies concealed in another lube, as may be feen in

When the Eye-Glass wants cleanfing, or the Crofs-Hairs are broken or difordered, and others to be put in their place, the before-mentioned Brass or Iron Tube must be taken from between the Frames.

But the Conftruction of the Eye-Glass will be much more convenient, if, inftead of a Frame Fig. 7. only, you use a little square Box, about four Lines in Thicknefs, whose two opposite Sides, which are parallel to the Limb of the Quadrant, have Grooves along them, in which may move a little Plate of a mean Thicknefs, drilled thro' the Middle with a round Hole of a con- venient bigness.

Upon the Surface of this Plate, reprefented by the Figure a, are continued out two Dia- meters of the aforsaid Hole, eroding each other at Right Angles, one of which is parallel to the Limb, and the other perpendicular thereto, upon which are placed the Crofs-Hairs. This Plate is very useful for moving the said Crofs-Hairs, (trained at Right Angles a-crofs the Middle of the Hole, backwards or forwards, according to necefTity. And when the Hairs are placed as they fhould be, the aforsaid Plate is fixed to the Box with Wax, which ought to be furnifhed with a Aiding Cover, for keeping the Crofs-Hairs from Accidents.

The Infide of the Tube ought to be blackened with the Smoke of Rofin, in order to pre- fefve the Eye from too strong Rays which come from a luminous Object, that so the Ap- pearance thereof may be more perfect. Note, Inftead of having Crofs-Hairs in the before- mentioned Box, a little Piece of plain Glass may be used, having two fine Lines drawn upon it at Right Angles with the Point of a Diamond.

The Tekfcope being prepared and placed in a convenient Situation parallel to the Radius, or Side of the Quadrant ; the next thing to be done, is to find the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant, which is 90 Degrees distant from the Line of Collimation or Sight of the Tekfcope, or a Line parallel to it, pafling thro' the Center of the Quadranr. But, Firff, it will be necefiary to fay fomething concerning this Line of Collimation, or Sight, about which M. de la Hire fays, he had formerly a long Controverfy, with very celebrated and great Astronomers, who, for want of duly confidering Dioptricks, maintained, that it is impoflible to find a fettled and conftantLine of Collimation in these kind of Telescopes.

It is now manifest, that all the Rays proceeding from any one Point of an Object, after having pafled thro' the Glass Lens, will all concur in one and she fame Point, which is called the Focus, provided that the Distance of the Radiating Point from the Lens be greater than the Semidiameter of either of the Convexities of the Lens, which here we fuppok equal -, that besides, among the Rays coming from a Radiating Point, and falling upon the anterior Surface of the Glass, that which concurs with a Line pafling thro' the Centers of the Convexi- ties, will fuffer no Refraction at it's going in or coming out of the Glass ; therefore the Points of Objects that are in that Right Line, are reprefented in the fame Line, which is called the Axis of the Optick Tube, and the Point of the Axis which is in the Middle of the Glass's thickness, is called the Center of the Lens.

If the Right Line pafling thro' the Center of the Lens, and the Point where the Hairs crofs one another, agree with the Axis of the said Optick Tube, it will be the Line of Collimation of the Tekfcope ; and an Object very distant, placed in the Axis produced, will appear in the fame Point where the Hairs crofs one another : juft as in^common Indexes, where we take For the Line of Sight, the Right Line, that pafling thro' the Slits of the Sights, tends to the Object. But altho' it almost never happens in the Polition of Telescopes, which we have eftablifhed, that the Right Line tending from the Object to the Point wherein the Hairs trofs, and whereat the Object is reprefented, coincides with the Optick Axis ; neverthelefs we ftiall not defift finding that Line of Collimation tending from the Object to it's Picture, reprefented in the Point wherein the Flairs crofs each other ; which may be done in the following Manner. Fig. 8. Let X V be a Glass Lens, it's Axis A C B, and it's Center C •, let F be the Point wherein the

Hairs crofs one another without the Axis A C B. If from the Point F, which by Conftruc- tion is at the Focal Distance from the Lens, Rays pass thro' the Glass, they will fuffer a Re- fraction at their Entrance into the Glass, and a second Refraction at their going out thereof; after which, they will continue their way parallel to one another. Now there is one of these Rays, namely, F E, which coming from the Point F, after the first Refraction in the Point E, pafles thro' the Center C; for after a second Refraction at it's going out of the Glass in the Point D, it will continue it's way from Dto O, parallel to F E, according to Dioptrick Rules. But all the Rays feparated at their going out of the Glass may be taken as parallel, if they tend to a very distant Point O, therefore they are also parallel to the Ray F E O, which is produced from the Object directly to the Point O •, and it is this Right Line FE O, which we call the Line of Collimation, in the aforsaid Pofition of Telescopes, and it will always remain the fame, if the Situation of the Glafles be not changed, that is, if the Lens and the Crofs-Hairs are in the fame Pofition and Distance. The Object O being in one of the extreme Points of the Right Line F E O, will be reprefented in the Point F.

Note, The Distance between the principal Ray O D, falling from the Point O of the Object upon the Lens, and it's refracted Ray E F, is always lefier than the Thicknefs of the said Lens D E, which is infenfible, and of no Importance, in the Distance of a very distant Object, and the Distance of the parallel Rays O D, O E F, will be so much the less, as the Lens is more directly turned towards the Pofition of the Crofs-Hairs.

We come now to fhew how to find the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant, which is thus : Having fixed the Plane of the Quadrant in a vertical Pofition, by means of the Plumb-Line CD, direct the Telescope towards a very distant vifible Point, nigh to the Senfible Horizon, in refpect of the Place where the Telescope of the Instrument is placed ; which may be first known by marking the Point B upon the Limb, in the Radius C B, parallel to the Axis of the Tube, which may be nearly done -, and by taking the Point D, distant from the Point B 90 Degrees ; for when the Piumb-Line falls upon the Point D, the Object appearing m the Point wherein the Hairs crofs one another, will be nigh to the Horizon ; for the Scnfible Horizon must be at Right Angles with the Plumb-Line CD. But since we are noi yet certain whether the Telescope be perfectly Horizontal, the Instrument mult be turned upfide down, so that the Point D may be above, and the Center below; but it is necefr- ry in this Tranfpofition, that the Line of Collimation be at the fame Height as it was in the tint Pofition. Llaving again directed the Telescope towards the Point first ob- ferved, so that it may appear in the Point wherein the Hairs crofs, and having adjufted the Cylinder in the Center of the Instrument, fallen the Plumb-Line with Wax upon the Limb in the Point D ; and if it exactly falls upon the Center C, it is certain that the Line of Colli- mation is horizontal. For this Line of Collimation will remain the fame in both Situations of the Quadrant, and produced with the Vertical Line C D, the Point D will be the Beginning of the Bivifions of the Limb.

But if, after having turned the Instrument upfide down, the Plumb-Line fufpended at the Point D, does not precifely fall upon the Center C, you must move it 'till it does pass thro' it, not any wife changing the Pofition of the Quadrant, nor the Glasses of the Telescope ; and then the Point E, upon which the Plumb-Line falls, must be marked in the circular Arc D E, defenbed about the Center C, passing thro' the Point D.

Now, I fay, if the Arc D E be bifected in the Point O, this Point will be the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the Radius CO will be at Right Angles with the Line of Collimation. This Operation is very manifest, for the Line of Collimation, or the Radius C B, parallel to it, will not be changed in either of the Pofitions of the Quadrant, if the Angle BCD, in the natural Situation of the Instrument, be greater than a Right Angle •, that is, if the Point of an Object: the Telescope is directed to, be under the Horizon, it is manifest that the Vertical Line C D produced, anfwering to the Plumb-Line, makes with the Line of Collimation an Angle lels than a right one, viz. the Complement of the Angle BCD, which is -qua! to the Angle BCE; therefore the Angle BCD, which is a Mean between that which is greater than a right one, and that leffer, made by the Radius C O, and the Line of Collimation, will be a right Angle ; which was to be proved.

We may yet otherwise have the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, by knowing a Point perfectly level with the Eye •, then placing the Telescope in that Point, and that place of theLirnb upon which the Plumb-Line plays, will give the first Point of Division.

The Proof of this Operation is juftified, if (the Plumb-Line passing thro' the Point O) a very distant Object appears in the Point wherein the Hairs crofs one another. For having inverted the Instrument, and the Telescope being always directed towards the fame Object, the Plumb-Line will pass thio' the Points O and C, otherwise there will be some Error in the Obfervations.

Being well allured of the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, you must draw about; the Center C two Portions of Circles, an Inch distance from each other, between which the Divisions of the Limb are to be included ; to do which, you must use a Beam-Compass, v/hofe Points are very fine, one of which, next to the End, moves backwards or forwards, by help of a Screw and Nut, which is adjufted to the End of the Branch of the Com- pass.

Then one of the Points of the Compass being placed in O, the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the other being distant therefrom the Length of the Radius of one or the laid concentrick Arcs, make a Mark upon the correfpondent concentrick Arc, which ex- actly divide into two equal Parts, one of which being laid off beyond the Mark, will give the Point B ; and so the Quadrant O B will be divided into three equal Parts, each being 30 Degrees.

Thefe Parts being each divided into three more, and each of these lafl into two ; and, finally, each of the Parts arifing into five more equal ones ; the Quadrant will be divided in- to 90 Degrees, each of which being again divided into fix equal Parts, every 10th Minute will be had.

The outward and inward concentrick Arcs of the Limb being very exactly divided, as we have directed, very fine Lines must diagonally be drawn thereon •, that is, from the firit Point of Division of the inward Arc, to the second Point of Division of the outward Arc ; and so on from one Division in the inward Arc to the next enfuing Division of the outward Arc, as appears in Fig. 6. This being done, the Distance between the outward and inward Arcs must be divided into 10 equal Parts, thro' each Point of Division of which, must nine concentrick Arcs be drawn about the Center of the Quadrant C, which will divide the Dia- gonals into ten Parts ; and so the Limb of the Instrument will be divided into Degrees and Minutes. Great care ought to be taken, that so the Divisions may be very exactly drawn equal •, and that they may be as exact as poiTible, very good and fine Compasses exquifitely to draw the Lines and Circles must be used ; and in making the several Divisions, we use fine Spring Compasses, whose Points are as fine as a Needle, and a good dividing Knife. JSote, The Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant for certain Uses, are continued about 5 Degrees beyond the Point O.

After this Instrument hath been carried in a Coach, or on Horfeback, &c. care ought to be taken to prove it, for fear left the Ghffes of the Telescope fhould have been dilbrdered, or the Crofs-Hairs removed, which often happens. Likewise when the Tube of the Telescope, if the Instrument be not conveyed, as aforsaid, is expofed to the Heat of the Sun, the Crofs- Hairs are too much ilretched, and afterwards when the Sun is abi'ent, they relax and become flack, and so are not very fit to be used : yet neverthelefs, if you think the Crofs-Hairs have not been moved, there is no necefllty of proving the Telescope, because the Object-Glass re- mains immoveable, and always the fame ; and the Crofs-Hairs, which by the Moifture of the Air are flackened, will often become tight again in fine Weather.

NOTE If a Telescope be placed to an Instrument already divided, it is very difficult to make it agree with the Divisions of the Limb ; therefore having proved it, according to the Directions before given, we shall find how much greater or leiler than a Right Angle the Telescope makes, with a Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and this Difference must be regarded in all Obfervations made with the Instrument: For if the Angle be greater than a Right one, all Altitudes observed will be greater than the true ones by the Quantity of the said Difference ; and contrariwife, if the aforenamed Angle be lefier than a Right Angle, the true Altitudes will be greater than the observed ones. Notwith- standing this, the Crofs-Hairs may be so placed, that the Line of Collimation of the Telescope may make a Right Angle with the Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of Division of the&gt; Quadrant, in applying the Crofs-Hairs on a moveable Plate, as we have mentioned in the Conftruction. But because in conveying this Instrument to distant Places, the Proof thereof must be often made-, and since the Method already laid down is Subject to great Inconve- niencies, as well on account of the Difficulty of inverting the Instrument, so that the Tube of the Telescope may be at the fame Height, as because of the different Refractions of the At- mofphere near the Horizon, at different Hours of the Day ; as likewise because of the Agita- tion and Undulation of the Air, and other the like Obftacles : Therefore we shall here fliew two other ways of rectifying these Instruments, that so any one may chufe that which appears mod convenient for him.

Now the first of these Methods is this : You must chufe some Place from whence a distant Object may be perceived diftinctly, at lead iooo Toifes, and whose Elevation above the Horizon .does not exceed the Number of Degrees of the Limb of the Quadrant continued out beyond the Beginning of the Divisions. Now after you have observed the Altitude of the said Object, as it appears by the Degrees of the Limb, a Pail brim-full of Water, or fome broad-mouthed Vessel, must be placed before, and as nigh to the Quadrant as pofllble, which must be raifed or lowered until the said Object be perceived thro' the Telescope upon the Surface of the Water, as in a Looking-Glass, which will not be difficult to do •, provided the Surface of the Water be not difturbed by the Wind ; whence the Depreflion of the said Object will be had in Degrees by Reflexion, and it will appear in an erect Situation, because the Telescope is compofed of two convex Glasses, which reprefent Objects inverted, tut by Reflexion inverted Objects appear erect, and erect Objects inverted.

But you ought to obferve, that when the Angle made by the Line of Collimation, and the Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, is greater than a right one, the Depreflion of the aforsaid Object will appear as an Altitude •, that is, when you look thro' the Telescope at the Image of the Object in the Surface of the Water, the Plumb-Line of the Quadrant will fall on the left Side of the first Point O of the Divisions of the Limb, and not on the Divisions continued out beyond the Point O. And contrariwife, in other Cafes, when the Angle the Line of Collimation makes with the Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, is leffer than a right one, the Altitude of the Object will appear by the Divisions of the Limb, as tho' it was depreffed •, that is, when you look at the aforsaid Object thro' the Telescope, the Plumb-Line of the Quadrant will fall upon the Divisions of the Limb continued out beyond the Point O. But in all Cafes, without regarding the Degrees of Altitude or Depreffion, denoted by the Plumb-Line, when the Object and it's Image, in the Surface of the Water, is efpied thro' the Telescope, the exact middle Point between the two Places whereon the Plumb-Line falls at both Obfervations on the Limb, is vertical, and anfwers to the Zenith with refpect to the Line of Collimation of the Telescope.

Now having found the Error of the Instrument, that is, the Difference between the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the said middle Point anfwering to the Zenith, you must try to place the Crofs-Hairs in their true Pofition, if you can conveniently ; but if nor, regard must be had to the Error in all Obfervations, whether of Elevation, or Depreflion.

But note, if the Object be near, and elevated some Minutes above the Horizon, the true Error of the Instrument may be found in the following Manner.

We have three things given in a Triangle, one of which is the known Distance between the Place of Obfervation and the Object ; the other the Distance between the Middle of the Te- lefcope, and the Point of the Surface of the Water, upon which a reflected Ray falls ; and the last, the Angle included between those two Sides ; that is, the Arc of the Limb contained between the two Places of the Limb upon which the Plumb-Line falls in, obferving, as afore- said, the Object and it's Image on the Surface of the Water thro' the Telescope: I fay, we

have the said two Sides and included Angle given, to find the Angle opposite to the leffer Side. This being done, if the Arc of the Limb included between the two Places whereon the Plumb-Line falls, in obferving, as aforsaid, be diminished, on the Side of the Limb pro- duced, by the Quantity of the Angle found, the Middle of the remaining Arc will be the true vertical Point. Note, To find the Distance between the Middle of the Tube of the Telescope, and the Point of the Surface of the Water upon which the reflected Rays fall, you may use a Rod or Thread prolonged from the said Tube to the Surface of the Water.

The other way (which is very fimple, but yet not eafy) of proving whether the Line of Collimation of the fixed Telescope be right, is thus: We suppose in this Method, that the Limb of the Quadrant is continued out, and divided into fbme few Degrees beyond 90. Now in some ferene ftill Night, we take the Meridian Altitude of some Star near the Zenith, having first turned the divided Face of the Limb of the Quadrant towards the East. This bein°- done, within a Night or two after, we again obferve the Altitude of the fame Star, the divided Face of the Limb being Westward. Then the Middle of the Arc of the Limb between the Altitudes at each Obfcrvation, will be the Point of 90 Deg. that is, a Point thro* which a Radius of the Quadrant passes, parallel to the Line of Collimation of the Telescope. Note, This Method is very useful for proving the Pofition of Telescopes, which are adjufted not only to Quadrants, but principally to Sextants, Octants, &c. for by means thereof may be found which of the Radii of the several Instruments are parallel to the Lines of Collima- tion of the Telescope.

We shall hereafter fliew the Manner of taking the Altitudes of Celeftial Bodies ; as likewife how to obferve them thro' Telescopes.

Of the Index, or moveable Ann of the Quadrant.

I shall conclude this Chapter in faying fomething concerning the Construction and Use of Fig. 9* this Index, which is no more than a moveable Index, with a Telescope adjufted thereto, which produces the fame Effect as the Indexes of other Instruments do ; that is, to make any Angle at pleafure with the Telescope fixed to the Quadrant. The principal Part of this Index is an Iron or Brass Ruler, drilled at one End, and is so adjufted to the Central Cylin- der, of which we have already fpoken, that it has a circular Motion only.

Upon this Ruler are fattened two Iron or Brass Frames, in one of which, viz. that which is next to the Center of the Instrument, the Object-Glass is placed •, and in the other, the Eye-Glass and Crofs-Hairs, which together make up a Telescope, alike in every thing to the other fixed Telescope of the Quadrant.

At the End of the Index joining to the Limb, is a little Opening about the bigness of a Degree of the Limb, thro' the Middle of which is ftrained a Hair, which is continued to the Center of the Quadrant. But because in using the Index the laid Hair is fubject to divers Inconftancies of the Air, it is better to use a thin Piece of clear Horn, or a flat Glass, ad- jufted to the aforsaid little Opening in a Frame, having a Right Line drawn upon that Sur- face thereof next to the Limb, so that it tends ro the Center of the Instrument, Note. The Frame is fattened in the little Opening by means of Screws.

Now the Index being fattened to the Center before it is used, the Telescope must be proved, that so it may be known whether the fixed Telescope agrees therewith. To do which, having placed the Plane of the Instrument horizontally, and directed the fixed Telescope to fome Point of a vifible Object, distant at least 500 Toifes ; afterwards the moveable Telescope must be pointed to the fame Object, that so one of the Crofs-Hairs, viz. that which is perpendicular to the Plane of the Quadrant, may appear upon the aforsaid Point of the Object : for it matters not whether the Interferon of the Hairs appear thereon, or the per- pendicular Hair only. Then, if the Line drawn upon the Horn or Glass on the Index falls upon the 90th Degree of the Limb of the Quadrant, the Telescopes agree : if not, either the Horn or Glass must be removed 'till the Line drawn thereon falls upon the 90th Degree of the Divisions of the Limb, and then it must be fattened to the Index •, or else regard must be had, in all Obfervations, to the Difference between the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the Line drawn upon the said Piece of Horn or Glass,

Of the Confti-uEtion and Use of the Micrometer.

TH E Micrometer is an Instrument of great Use in Aftronomy, and principally in meafunng p,g. ^ the apparent Diameters of the Planets, and taking small Distances not exceeding a Degree, or Degree and a half. This Instrument is compofed of two rectangular Brass Frames, one of which, viz. ABCD, is commonly 2 \ Inches long, and 1 {- broad, having the Sides A B and C D, divided into equal Parts, about four Lines distant from each other (for this is according to the Turns of the Screw, as shall be hereafter explained), but in such manner, that the Lines drawn thro' each Division be perpendicular to the Sides A B and C D, and having human Hairs ffrained from Division to Division, iaftened with Wax to the Places 2, 2, £s?V.

The other Frame E F G H, whose Length E F is one Inch and a half, is so adjufted to the former Frame, that the Sides E F and G H of the one, may move along the Sides A B and C D of the other, without being feparated therefrom •, which is done by means of Dove-tail Grooves. The Face of this second Frame next to the divided Face of the former, is likewise furnifhed with a Hair, (trained at the Place 4 ; so that when the Frame is moving, the said Hair may be always parallel to the Hairs on the other Frame. The Screw I, whose Cylinder is about four or five Lines in Diameter, goes thro', and turns in the Side B D of one of the Frames, which lor this purpofe is made thicker than the other Sides. The End of this Screw is cut so as to go through a round Hole made in the Side F PI of the leffer Frame, which for this purpofe is likewise made thicker than the other Sides ; there is also a little Pin K put thro' a Hole made in the End of the Screw, that so the leffer Frame can no ways move, but in turning the Screw to the right or left, according as you would have the Frame move forwards or backwards. M N is a circular Plate about an Inch in Diameter, Faflened with two Screws to the Side B D of the Frame. This Plate is commonly divided in- to 20 of 60 equal Parts, which ferve to reckon the Revolutions and Parts of the Screw, by means of the Index M, which is adjufted under the Neck of the said Screw, and turns with it. Now the Divisions of the Sides of the Frame A B C D, are made according to the Breadth of the Threads of the Screw •, for if, for example, the Divisions are defined to be 10 Turns of the Screw distant from each other, turn the laid Screw ten times about, and note how far the Frame hath moved : if it has moved four Lines, the Divisions mil ft be four Lines distant from each other •, and so of others.

Now because Hairs are fubject to divers Accidents by Heat, and otherwise, therefore M. de la Hire propofes a very thin and lmooth piece of Glass to be 11 fed inftead of them, adjufted in Grooves made in the Sides of the Frame, and having very fine parallel Lines drawn there- on, which produce the fame Effect: as the parallel Hairs. All the Difficulty confifts in chusing a very fine and well polifhed Piece of Glass, and drawing the Lines extremely nice ; for the Defaults will grofsly appear, when the said Lines are perceived in a Telescope.

Note, Theie Lines must be very lightly drawn upon the Glass with a small Diamond, whose Point is very fine.

This Instrument is joined to a Telescope, by means of the prominent Pieces L, L, which (Vide in a Kind of parallelogramick Tin-Box, at the two Sides of which are two Circular Openings, wherein are foldered two fhort Tubes ; that on one Side being to receive the Tube carrying the Eye-Glass ; and that on the other Side, the Tube carrying the Object-Glass, fo that the Micrometer may be in the Focus of the said Object-Glass.

Use of the Micrometer.

In order to use this Instrument, a lively Reprefentation of Objects appearing thro' the Telescope must be made in the Point whereat the parallel Flairs are placed ; therefore if the Object-Glass be placed at it's Focal Distance from the Micrometer, more or less, according to the Nature and Conftitution of the Eyes of the Obfervator, the Objects and the parallel Hairs will appear diftinctly in the said Focus.

If then the Focal Length of the Object-Glass be measured in Lines or 12th Parts of Inches, or, which is all one, the Distance from the Center of the Object-Glass to the parallel Hairs of the Micrometer, be measured, this Distance is to the Length of four Lines, which is the Interval between two fixed parallel Hairs nigheft each other, as Radius is to the Tan- gent of the Angle, fubtended by the two neaRest parallel Hairs. This is evident from Diop- tricks : for the Distance between the Object and the Obfervator's Eye, is supposed to be io great, that the focal Length of the Object-Glass, compared therewith, is of no confequence ; so that the Rays proceeding from the Points of the Object directly pass thro' the Center of the Object-Glass in the fame Manner, as tho' the Obfervator's Eye was placed in the said Object- Glass. This may be fhewn by Experience thus :

Draw two black Lines parallel upon a very fmooth and white Board, whose Interval let be such, that at the Distance of 200 or 300 Toifes, they may be met with or embraced by two parallel Hairs of the Micrometer. This being done, remove the Table in a convenient Place (there being no Wind ftirring), so far from the Telescope, until the Lines drawn thereon, which must be perpendicular to a Right Line drawn from the Table to the Micrometer, be catched by two fixed parallel Hairs of the Micrometer -, and then the Distance between the Table and the Object-Glass will have the fame Proportion to the Distance between the Lines on the Board, as Radius is to the Tangent of the Angle fubtended by two Hairs of the Micrometer.

Now move the Frame E F G H, by means of the Screw, 'till it's Hair exactly agrees with one of the parallel Flairs of the other Frame ; and when this is done, obferve the Situation of the Index of the Screw ; then turn the Screw until the said I lair of the Frame E F G H agrees with the next neaRest fixed Hair of the other Frame •, or, which is the fame thing, move the Frame EFGH the Length of four Lines, or one third of an Inch, which may be eafily known hy means of the Objcct-Glass, which magnifies Objects, and count the Revolutions and Parts of the Screw, compieated in moving the said Frame that Length. Finally, make a Table, ftiewing how many Revolutions, and Parts of a Revolution of the said Screw, are anfwerable to every Minute and Second, by having the Angle fubtended bv the two black Lints on the Board given, and taking the Revolutions proportional to the Angles •, that is, if a certain Number of Revolutions give a certain Angle, half this !\'umber will give half the Angle, fcV. And this Proportion is exact enough in these small Angles.

Now the Manner of taking the apparent Diameters of the Planets, is thus : Having di- !cchd the Telescope, and it's Micrometer, towards a Planet, difpofe the Hairs, by the Mo- tion of the Telescope, in such a Manner, that one of the fixed parallel Hairs do juft touch une Edge of the Planet, and turn the Screw 'till the moveable Hair juft touches the opposite Edo-e of the said Planet. Then, by means of the Table, you will know how many Minutes or Seconds correfpond to the Number of Revolutions or Parts, reckoning from the Point of the Plate over which the Index flood when the fixed Hair touched one Edge of the Planet, to the Point it frauds over when the moveable Hair touches the opposite Edge ; and confe- ouently, the apparent Diameter of the. said Planet will be had. And in this manner may small Angles on Earth be taken, which may be eafier done than those of the Celeftial Bodies, feecaufe of their Immobility.

This Method is convenient enough for measuring the apparent Diameters of the Planets, if the Body of any one of them moves between the parallel Hairs. Yet it ought to be ob- ferved, that the Sun and Moon's Diameters appear very unequal upon the account of Re- fraction ; for in small Elevations above the Horizon, by the Space of 30 Minutes, the verti- cal Diameters appear fomething leffer than they really are in the Horizon, and the hori- zontal Diameters cannot be found, unlefs with much Trouble, and several repeated Obferva- tions •, as likewise the Distance between two Stars, or the Horns of the Moon, because of their Diurnal Motions, which appear thro' the Telescope very fwift.

If two Stars of different Altitudes pass by the Meridian at different Times, the Difference of their Altitudes will be the Difference of their Distances from the Equator towards either of the Poles, which is called their Difference of Declination •, and by their Difference of Time in coming to the Meridian, the Difference of their Distance from a determinate Point of the Equator, that is, the first Degree of Aries will be had $ and this is their Difference of Right Afcenfion.

If the two Stars are distant from each other, we have Time enough, in the Interval of their PalTage by the Meridian and Micrometer, to finifh the Operations regarding the first, before proceeding to those of the second ; but if they be very near each other, it is extremely difficult to make both the Obfervations at the fame Time, that so the two Stars may be pre- cifely catched in the Meridian. But M. de la Hire fhews how to remedy this Inconveniency, by only using the common Micrometer : for the Obfervation of the PalTage of Stars be- tween, or upon the Hairs of the Micrometer, will give, by eafy Confequences, their Dif- ference of Right Aicenfion and Declination, without even supposing a Meridian known or drawn.

But if the Difference of Declination and Right Afcenfion of two Stars that cannot be taken in between the Hairs of the Micrometer be required, this may be found in the follow- ing Manner.

We adjuft a Crofs-Hair to the Micrometer, cutting the parallel ones at Right Angles, Fig. 10. which we fallen with Wax to the Middle of the Sides AC and B D. Then the Telescope, and it's Micrometer, being fix(d in a convenient Pofitio.n, so that the Stars may fucceffively pass by the parallel Hairs, as the Stars A and S, in Figure 10 -, we obferve, by a second Pendulum Clock, the Time wherein the first Star A touches the Point in which the afore- mentioned Crofs-Hair A S erodes some one of the parallel Hairs, as A d. The Micrometer being disposed for this Obfervation, which is not difficult to do, reckon the Seconds of Time elapfed between the Obfervations made in the Point A, and the arrival of the said Star to the Point B, being the Concourfe of another parallel Hair BD. We likewise obferve the Time wherein the other Star S meets the Crofs-Hair at the Point S, and then at the Point D of the parallel Hair B D. Note, It is the fame thing if the Star S first meets the parallel Hair in D, and afterwards the Crofs-Hair in S.

Now as the Number of Seconds the Star A is moving through the Space A B, is to the Number of Seconds the Star S is moving through the Space SD; so is the Distance A C, known in Minutes and Seconds of a Degree in the Micrometer, to the Distance C S, in Minutes and Seconds of a Degree. But the Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space AB, must be converted into Minutes and Seconds of a great Circle, by the Rule of Pro- portion.

Having first converted the Seconds of the Time of the said Motion from A to B, which may be here citeemed as a Right Line, or an Arc of a great Circle, into Minutes and Se- conds of a Circle, in allowing 15 Minutes of a Circle to every Minute of an Hour, and the fame for Seconds : We fay, by the Rule of Proportion, As Radius is to the Sine Com- plement of the Stars known Declination, So is the Number of Seconds in the Arc A B also known, to the Number of Seconds of the fame Kind contained in the Arc C A, as an Arc of a great Circle.

Moreover, in the Right-angled Triangle CAB, the Sides CA, and AB being given, as likewise the Right Angle at C, we find the Angle CAB; and i'uppofing CPR perpendi- cular to the Line A B, A B will be to C A as C A is to A P.

But in the Right-angled Triangle CAP, we have (besides the Right Angle) the Angle A, as likewise the Side C A given ; therefore As Radius is to C A, So is the Sine of the An»le CAP, to C P. And as the Number of horary Seconds of the Motion from A to B, is to the horary Seconds in the Motion from S to D, so is C P to C R. Then taking C R from C P, or else adding them together, according as AB or S D is next to the Point C, and we fliall have the Quantity of P R in parts of a great Circle, which will be the Difference of the two Stars Declinations. We have no regard here to the Difference of Mo- tion through the Spaces A B and S D, caused by the Difference of Declination, bccaufe it is of no Confequence in the Difference of Declinations, as they are observed by the Micro- meter.

Finally, As A B is to A P, So is the Number of horary Seconds of the observed Motion of the Star A through the Space A B, to the Number of Seconds of the Motion of the said Star through the Space A P. Wherefore the Time when the Star A comes to P, will be known. But as the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space A B is to the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space S D ; So is the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space A P, to the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through S R.

Moreover ; The Time when the Star S is in S is known, to which if the Time of the Motion through S R be added, when A and S are on the fame Side the Point C, or fub- flracted if otherwise, and the Time when the Star is in R will be had. Now the Difference of Time between the Arrivals of the Stars in P and R, that is, the Difference of the Times wherein they come to the Meridian, will be the Difference of their Right Afcenfions, which by the Rule of Proportion may be reduced into Degrees and Minutes. Note, We have no regard here to the proper Motion of the Stars.

From hence it is eafy to know how, inflead of the parallel Hair A B, to use another pa-rallel one, pafling thro' A, or any other, as also a moveable Parallel, provided that they formSimilar Triangles, as will be eafily conceived by what hath been already said.

The aforsaid Operation may yet be done by another Method. For the parallel Hairs of the Micrometer being so disposed, that the first of the Stars may move upon one of them ; and if the Time wherein the said Star croffes the Crofs-Hair of the Micrometer be observed, and if moreover the Time wherein the other Star croffes the said Crofs-Hair be observed, and at the fame Time the moveable parallel Hair be adjufted to the second Star, no ways altering the Micrometer •, we mail have, by means of the Distance between that parallel Hair, the fitfb Star moved upon, and the moveable parallel Hair, the Distance between two parallel Circles, to the Equator, palling thro' the Places of the said Stars, which is their Difference of Declination. And if moreover, the Difference of the Times between the Paffages of each of the Stars by the Crofs-Hair of the Micrometer be converted into Minutes and Seconds of a Degree, the said Stars afcenfional Difference will be had. This needs no Example.

But if this be required between some Star, and the Sun or Moon •, as for Example, Mercury moving under the Sun's Disk ; place the Micrometer fo, that the Limb of the Sun may move along one of the parallel Hairs, and obferve the Times when the Sun's antecedent and confequent Limbs, and the Center of Mercury, touch the Crofs-Hair ; then the Difference of Mercury's Declination, and the Sun's Limb, by means of the moveable Hair, will be had, the Micrometer remaining fixed. And if to the Time of the Obfervation of the Sun's an- tecedent Limb, half the Time elapfed between the Paffages of the antecedent and confequent Limb be added, we fliall have the Time of the Paffage of the Sun's Center by the Crofs-Hair of the Micrometer •, and by this means the Difference of the Times between the Paffage of the Sun's Center and Mercury over the Crofs-Hair, that is, by the Meridian, will be ob- tained. And this Difference of Time being converted into Degrees and Minutes, will give their afcenfional Difference.

Moreover, since the Sun's Center is in the Ecliptick, if in the fame Time as the said Center passes over the Crofs-Hair (the Sun's true Place being otherwise known), you feek in Ta- bles, the Angle of the Ecliptick with the Meridian, you will likewise have the Angle that Fig, , K the Ecliptick makes with the Sun's Parallel, as in Fig. 1 1. the Angle OCR, of the Ecliptick

O C B, and of the Parallel to the Equator R C. Let P C be the Meridian, Mercury in M, the Center of the Sun in C, MR parallel to P C, and C R the Difference of Right Afcen- fion between the Center of the Sun C, and Mercury in M. Now the Minutes of the Dif- ference of the Right Afcenfion C R in the Parallel, being reduced to Minutes of a great Cir- cle, fay, As Radius is to the Sine Complement of the Sun's or Mercury' % Declination •, So is the Number of Seconds of the Difference of Right Afcenfion, to the Number of Seconds

C K, as the Arc of a grea: Circle. Then in the Triangle CRT, Right-angled at R, we have the Side C R (now found) -, as also the Angle R C T, viz. the Difference between the pjcjht Angle, and the Angle made by the Ecliptick and Meridian •, whence the Hypothe- rmic C T, and the Side R T may be found. And if R T be taken from M R, which is the Difference of Declination of Mercury in M, and the Center of the Sun in C, there will re- main T M. Again, As C T is to T R, So is T M toTO; MO will be the Latitude of Mercury at the Time of Obfervation : And adding T O to the Side C T, we shall have C O^ the Difference of Longitude between Mercury and the Sun's Center. Therefore the Sun's Lon°itude being known, that of Murcurys may also be found.

If moreover, two or three Hours after the first Obfervation of Mercury in M, the Diffe- rence of Declination and Right Afcenfion thereof be again observed, when he is come to N, we shall find, as before, N Q^the Latitude of Mercury, and C Q^the Difference of Longi- tude of him and the Sun's Center C ; whence the Place of the apparent Node of Mercury will be had. But note, The Point of Concourfe A, in the Right Line M N, with the Ecliptick CB, is not the Place of the said Node, with regard to the Point C, because between the Obfervations made in the Points M and N, the Sun by it's proper Motion is moved a few Minutes forwards, according to the Succeffion of Signs, which notwithstanding we have not regarded in the Obfervations. Therefore fay, As the Difference of the Latitudes M O and N Q^, to O Q^, minus the proper Motion of the Sun, between the Obfervations made in M and N •, So is MO to the Distance O A, whence the true Diffance from the Sun's Center C to Mercury's Node A will be had. Note, The proper Motion of the Sun between the Obfervations must be taken from O Q^, because during that Time Mercury is re: ograde ; but if it's Motion had been direct, the Sun's Motion must have been added to O Q^

In the Obfervations of Mercury's Paffage under the Sun's Disk, we have had no regard to the proper Motion of the Sun, as being of small confequence •, but if it is required to be brought into Confideration, C O and C Qjnuf!: be diminished by so much of the Sun's pro- per Motion, as is performed in the Interval of Time between the Paffage of the Sun's Center and Mercury, by the Meridian.

By the fame Method, the Distances of Planets from each other, or from fixed Stars near the Ecliptick, may be observed •, neverthelefs, excepting some Minutes, not only upon the account of the proper Motions of the Stars, but alio because of their Distance from the Ecliptick or too great Latitude. Note, This second Method for finding the Difference of Declination and Right Afcenfion is not exacter than the former^ altho' it is performed with less Calculation : for it is so difficult to difpofe the Hairs of the Micrometer according to the Parallel of the Diurnal Motion, that it cannot be done, but by several uncertain trials.

M. de la Hire hath also invented another Micrometer, whose ConftrucYion is eafy •, for it Fig. 12; is only a Pair of proportional Compalfes, whose Legs on one Side, are, for Example, ten Times longer than those on the other Side. The fhorteft Legs of these Compasses must be put thro' a Slit made in the Tube of the Telescope, and placed so in the Focus of the Object- Glass, that the two Points, which ought to be very fine, may be applied to all Objects re- prefented in the said Focus. Then if the Angle fubtended by the i^iftance of two Objects in the Focus of the Object-Glass be required to be found by means of these Compasses, you must fhut or open the two fhorteft Legs 'till their Points juft touch the Rcprefentations of the Objects ; and keeping the Compasses to this Opening, if the longeft Legs be applied to the Divisions of a Scale, the Minutes and Seconds .contained in the Angle fubtended by the Distance of the aforsaid Objects will be had. The Manner of dividing the said Scale, is the fame as that for finding the Distances of the parallel Hairs of the other Micrometer, in faying by the Rule of Proportion, As the Number of Lines contained in the Focal Length of the Object-Glass, is to one Line ; So is Radius to the Tangent of the Angle fubtended by one Line in the Focus : therefore if the longeft Legs be ten Times longer than the others, ten Lines on the Scale will measure the said Angle fubtended by one Line, which being known, it will be eafy to divide the Scale for Minutes and Seconds.

This Micrometer may be used for taking the apparent Diameters of the Planets •, as also to take the Distances of fixed Stars which are near each other, and measure small Distances on Earth. Candle, that so one may fee them with the Stars, thro' the Telescope: and this is cone two ways.

First, We enlighten the Object-Glass of the Telescope, in obliquely bringing a Candle near to it, that so it's Smoke or Body do not hinder the Progrefs of the Rays coining from the Star. But if the Object-Glass be fomcthing deep in the Tube, it cannot fufficicntly be enlightened, without the Candle's being very near it, and this hinders the Sight of the Star •, and if the Telescope is above fix Feet long, it will be difficult fufficiently to enlighten the Object-Glass, that so the crofs Hairs be diftin6tly perceived.

Secondly, We make a fuffkient Opening in tne Tube of the Telescope near the Focus of the Object-Glass, thro' which we enlighten with a Candle the crofs Hairs placed in the Focus.

But this Method is fubject to several Inconveniences, for the Light being so near the Obfervator's Eyes, he is otten incommoded thereby. And moreover, since the crofs Hairs are by that Opening uncovered and txpofed to the Air, they lofe their Situation, become flack, or may be broken.

Besides this, the said second Method is liable to an Inconveniency for which it ought to be entirely neglected ; and that is, that it is iubject to an Error, which is, that according to the Pofition of the Light illuminating the crofs Hairs, the said Hairs will appear in different Situations : because, for Example, when the Horizontal Hair is enlightened above, we per- ceive a luminous Line, which may be taken for the said Hair, and which appears at it's upper Superficies. And contrariwife, when the said Hair is enlightened underneath, the lu- minous Line will appear at it's lower Superficies, the Hair not being moved ; and this Error will be the Diameter of the Hair, which often amounts to more than fix Seconds. But M. de la Hire hath found a Remedy for this Inconveniency. For he often found, in Obferva- tions made in Moonfhine Nights, in Weather a little foggy, that the crofs Hairs were di- flinctly perceived \ whereas, when the Heavens were ferene, they could fcarcely be feen : whence he bethought himfelf to cover that End of the Tube next to the Object-Glass with a Piece of Gawze, or very fine white filken Crape ; which fucceeded so well, that a Link placed at a good Distance from the Telescope so enlightened the Crape, that the crofs Hairs diftinctly appeared, and the Sight of the Stars was no way obfeured.

Solar Obfervations cannot be made without placing a fmoked Glass between the Telescope and the Eye, which may thus be prepared. Take two equal and well poli (Tied round Pieces of flat Glass, upon the Surface of one of which, all round it's Limb, glew a Pafteboard Ring •, then put the other Piece of Glass into the Smoke of a Link, taking it several times out, and putting it in again, for fear left the Heat of the Link fhould break it, until the Smoke be so thick thereon, that the Link can fcarcely be feen thro' it : but the Smoke must not be all over it of the fame Thicknefs, that so that Place thereof may be chosen anfwering to the Sun's Splendor. This being done, this Glass thus blackened, must be glewed to the before-mentioned Pafteboard Ring, with it's blackened Side next to the other Glass, that fo the Smoke may not be rubbed off.

Note, When the Sun's Altitude is observed thro' a Telescope, confiding of but two Gtaffes, it's upper Limb will appear as tho' it were the lower one.

There are two principal Kinds of Obfervations of Stars, the one being when they are in the Meridian, and the other when they are in vertical Circles.

If the Pofition of the Meridian be known, and then the Plane of the Quadrant be placed in the Meridian Circle, by means of the plumb Line fufpended at the Center, the Meridian Altitudes of Stars may be eafily taken, which are the principal Operations, ferving as a Foundation to the whole Art of Aftronomy. The Meridian Altitude of a Star may likewise be had by means of a Pendulum Clock, if the exact Time of the Star's Paffage by the Me- ridian be known. Now it must be observed, that Stars have the fame Altitude during a Minute before and after their Paffage by the Meridian, if they be not in or near the Zenith ; but if they be, their Altitudes must be taken every Minute, when they are near the Meridian, which we suppose already known, and then their greateft or lead Altitudes will be the Me- ridian Altitudes fought.

As to the Obfervations made without the Meridian in Vertical Circles, the Pofition of a given Vertical Circle must be known, or found by the following Method.

First, The Quadrant and it's Telescope remaining in the fame Situation wherein it was when the Altitude of a Star, together with the Time of it's Paffage by the Interfection of the crofs Hairs in the Focus of the Object-Glass, was taken, we obferve the Time when the Sun, or some fixed Star, whole Latitude and Longitude is known, arrives to the Verti- cal Hair in the Telescope ; and from thence the Pofition of the said Vertical Circle will be had, and also the observed Star's true Place.

But if the Sun, or some other Star, does not pass by the Mouth of the Tube of the Telescope, and if a Meridian Line be otherwise well drawn upon a Fioor, or very level Ground, in the Place of Obfervation, you must fufpend a Plumb-Line to some fixed Place, aboii-: three or four Toifes distant from the Quadrant, under which upon the Floor must a Mark be made in a right Line with the Plumb-Line. This being done, you must put a thin Piece of Brass, or Pafteboard, very near the Object-Glass, in the Middle of which there is a small Slit vertically placed, and passing thro' the Center of the Circular Figure of the Object-Glass. Now by means of this Slit, the beforementioned Plumb-Line may be per- ceived thro' the Telescope, which before could not be feen, because of its Nearnefs thereto. Then the Plumb-Line must be removed and fufpended, so that it be perceived in a right Line with a vertical Hair in the Focus of the Object-Glass, and a Point marked on the Floor directly under it. And if a right Line be drawn thro this Point, and that marked under the Plumb-Line before it was removed, the laid Line will meet the Meridian drawn upon the Floor; and so we shall have the Pofition of the vertical Circle the observed Scar is in with refpect to the Meridian, the Angle whereof may be measured in afluming known Lengths upon the two Lines Irom the Point of Concourfe ; for if thro' the Extremities of th-fe known Lengths, a Line or Base be drawn, we shall have a Triangle, whole three Sides being known, the Angle at the Vertex may be found, which will be the Angle made by the Vertical Circle and Meridian.

The Manner of taking the Meridian Altitudes of Star's.

It is very difficult to place the Plane of the Quadrant in the Meridian exactly enough to take Meridian Altitude of a Star ; for unlefs there be a convenient Place and a Wall, where the Quadrant may be firmly fattened in the Plane of the Meridian, which is very difficult to do, we shall not have the true Pofition of the Meridian, proper to obferve all the Stars, as we have mentioned already. Therefore it will be much eafier, and principally in Journeys, to use a portable Quadrant, by means of which the Altitude of a Star must be observed a little before its Paffage over the Meridian, every Minute, if poffible, until its greateft or haft Altitude be had. Now, tho' by this means we have not the true Pofition of the Meridian, yet we have the apparent Meridian Altitude of the Star.

Altho' this Method is very good, and free from any fenfible Error, yet if a Star paries by the Meridian near the Zenith, we cannot have its Meridian Altitude, by repeated Obler- vations every Minute, unlefs by chance ; because in every Minute of an Hour the Altitude aug- ments about fifteen Minutes of a Degree : and in these kind of Obfervations, the inconvenient Situation of the Obfervator, the Variation of the Star's Azimuth several Degrees in a little time, the Alteration that the Inltrument must have, and the Difficulty in well replacing it vertically again, hinders our making of Obfervations oftner than in every fourth Minute of an Hour; during which Time the Difference in the Star's Altitude will be One Degree. Therefore in these Cafes it will be better to have the true Pofition of the Meridian, or the exact Time a Star passes by the Meridian, in order to place tne Inltrument in the laid Me- ridian, or move it so that one may obferve the Altitude of the Star the Moment it pafles by the Meridian.

Of Refractions.

The Meridian Altitudes of two fixed Stars, which are equal, or a small matter different, the one being North, and the other South, being observed, and also their Declination otherwise given •, to find the Refraction anfwering to the Degrees of Altitude of tne said Stars, and the true Height of the Pole, or Equator, above the Place of Obfervation.

Having found the apparent Meridian Altitude of some Star near the Pole (by the afore- going Directions; if the Complement of the said Star's Declination be added thereto, or taken therefrom, we shall have the apparent Height of the Pole. After the fame manner may also the apparent Height of the Equator be found, by means of the Meridian Altitude of some Star near the Equator, in adding or fubftracting its Declination.

Then these Heights of the Pole and Equator being added together, their Sum will al- ways be greater than a Quadrant ; but 90 Degrees being taken from this Sum, the Remainder will be double the Refraction of either of the Stars observed at the fame height : and therefore taking the said Refraction from the said apparent Height of the Pole, or Equator, we fhail have their true Altitude.

Example.

Let the Meridian Altitude of a Star observed below the North Pole, be 30 Deg. 15 Mim and the Complement of its Declination 5 deg. whence the apparent Height of the Pole will be 35 Deg. 15 Min. Also let the apparent Meridian Altitude of some other Star, observed near the Equator, be 30 Deg. 40 Min. and its Declination 40 Deg. 9 Min. whence the appa- rent Height of the Equator will be 54 Deg. 49 Min. Therefore the Sum of the Heights of the Pole and Equator thus found, will be 90 Deg. 4 Min. from which fubftracting.90 Deg. and there remains 4 Min. which is double the Refraction at 30 Deg. 28 Min. of Altitude, which is about the middle between the Heights found : therefore at the Altitude of ^o Deg. 15 Min. the Refraction will be fomething above 2 Min. viz. 2 Min. 1 See. and at the Altitude of 30 Deg. 40 Min. the Refraction will be 1 Min. 59 Sec.

Laftly, If 2 Min. 1 Sec. be taken from the apparent Height of the Pole 25 Min. 15 Sec the Remainder 35 Deg. 12 Min. 59 Sec. will be the true Height of the E J ole; and so the true Height of the Equator will be 54 Deg. 47 Min. 1 Sec. as being the Complement of the Height of the Pole to 90 deg.

Tfote, The Refraction and Height of the Pole found according to this way, will be fo much the more exact, as the Altitude of the Stars is greater -, for if the Difference of the Altitudes of each Star mould be even 2 Deg. when their Altitudes are above 30 Deg. we may by this Method have the Refraction, and the true Height of the Pole, because in this Cafe the Difference of Refraction in Altitudes differing two Degrees, is not fenfible.

Another Way of obferving Refraclions.

The Quantity of Refraction may also be found by the Obfervations of one Star only, whose Meridian Altitude is 90 Deg. or a little less ; for the Height of the Pole or Equator above the Place of Obfervation being otherwise known, we shall have the Star's true De- clination, by it's Meridian Altitude •, because Refractions near the Zenith are infenfibie.

Now if we obferve by a Pendulum the exact Times when the said atar comes to every Degree of Altitude, as also the Time of it's Paffage by the Meridian, which may be known by the equal Altitudes of the Star being East and West, we have three things given in a fpherical Triangle, viz. the Distance between the Pole and Zenith, the Complement of the Star's Declination, and the Angle comprehended by the aforsaid Arcs ; namely, the Diffe- rence of mean Time between the Paffage of the Star by the Meridian and it's Place, con- verted into Degrees and Minutes"-, to which muff, be added, the convenable proportional Part of the mean Motion of the Sun in the Proportion of 59 Min. 8 Sec. per Day : therefore the true Arc of the Vertical Circle between the Zenith and the true Place of the Star may be found.

But the apparent Arc of the Altitude of the Star is had by Obfervation, and the Diffe- rence of these Arcs will be the Quantity of Refraction at the Height of the Star. By a like Calculation the Refraction of every Degree of Altitude may be found.

The fame may be done by means of the Sun, or any other Star, provided it's Declination be known, to the End that at the Time of Obfervation the true Distance of the Sun or Star from the Zenith may be found.

The Refractions of Stars being known, it will then be eafy to find the Height of the Pole ; for having observed the Meridian Altitude of the Polar Star, as well above as below the Pole, the fame Day, and having diminished each Altitude by it's proper Refraction, half of the Difference of the corrected Altitudes, added to the leffer Altitude corrected, or fub- ftracted from the greater Altitude thus corrected, will give the true Height of the Pole.

M. de la Hire has observed with great Care for several Years the Meridian Altitudes of fixed Stars, and principally of Sirius, and Lucida Lyra, with Aflronomical Quadrants very well divided, and very good Telescopes at different Hours of the Day and Night, and at dif- ferent Seaibns of the Year ; and he affures us, that he never found any Difference in the;r Altitudes, but what proceeded from their proper Motion.

And because Sirius comes to about the 26th Degree of the Meridian, we might doubt whether in the leffer Altitudes the Refractions in the Winter would be greater than those in the Summer •, hence he also observed, with the late M. Picard, the leffer Meridian Alti- tudes of the Star Capella, which is about 4 - t Degrees at several different Times of the Year.

Having compared these different Obfervations together, and made the neceffarv Reduc- tions, because of the proper Motion of that Star, there was fcarcely found one Minute of Difference, that could proceed from any other Caufe but Refraction. Therefore he made but one Table of the Refraction of the Sun, Moon, and the Stars, for all Times of the Year, conformable to the Obfervations that he made from them.

Notwithftanding this, one would think that Refractions nigh the Horizon are fubject to divers Inconftancies, according to the Conltitution of the Air, and the Nature of high or low Grounds, as M. de la Hire has often found ; for obferving the Meridian Altitudes of Stars at the Foot of a Mountain, which feemed to be even with the Top of it, they appeared to him a little higher, than if he had observed them at the Top : But if the Obfervations of others may be depended upon, Refractions are greater, even in Summer, in the frozen Zones, than in the temperate Zones.

How to find the Time of the Equinox and Sol/lice by Obfervation.

Having found the Height of the Equator, the Refraction and the Sun's Parallax at the fame Altitude, it will not afterwards be difficult to find the Time in which the Center of the Sun is in the Equator-, for if from the apparent Meridian Altitude of the Center of the Sun, the fame Dav as it comes to the Equinox, be taken the convenient Refraction, and then the Parallax be added thereto, the true Meridian Altitude of the Sun's Center will be had. Now the Difference of this Altitude, and the Height of the Equinoctial, will fhew the Time of the true Equinox before or after Noon : and if the Sum of the Seconds of that Difference be divided by 59, the Quotient will fhew the Hours and Fractions which must be added or fubftracted from the true Hour of Noon, to have the Time of the true Equinox.

The Hours of the Quotient must be added to the Time of Noon, if the Meridian Altitude of the Sun be leffer than the Height of the Equator about the Time of the vernal Equinox -, but they must be fub ft rafted, if it be found greater. You must proceed contrariwife, when the Sun is near the autumnal Equinox.

Example. The true Height 41 Deg. 10 Min. of the Equator being given, and having ob- ferved the true Meridian Altitude 41 Deg. 5 Min. 15 Sec. of the Sun, found by the apparent Altitude of it's upper or lower Limb, corrected by it's Semidiameter, Refraction, and Pa- rallax, and the Difference wili be 4 Min. 45 Sec. or 285 Seconds, which being divided by 59, the Quotient will be 4 ; 9 -, that is, 4 Hours 48 Minutes, which must be added to Noon, if the Sun be in the vernal Equinox, and confequently the Time of the Equinox will happen 4 Hours 48 Minutes after Noon. But if the Sun was in the autumnal Equinox, the Time of the laid Equinox would happen 4 Flours 48 Minutes before Noon, that is, at 12 Minutes pad S'~.'vcn in the Morning.

As to the Solftices, there is much more Difficulty in determining them than the Equi- noxes, lor one Obfervation only is not fufficient •, because about this Time the Difference be- tween the Meridian Altitudes in one Day, and the next fucceeding Day, is almost infen- fible.

Now the exact Meridian Altitude of the Sun must be taken, 12 or 15 Days before the Solftice, and as many after, that so one may find tne fame Meridian Altitude by little and little ; to the End that by the proportional Farts of the alteration of the Sun's Meridian Al- titude, we may more exactly find the Time wherein the Sun is found at the fame Altitude, before and after the Solftice, being in the fame Parallel to the Equator.

Now having found the Time elapfed between both the Situations of the Sun, you must; take half of it, and feek in the Tables the true Place of the Sun at these three Times. This being clone, the Difference of the extreme Places of the Sun must be added to the mean Place, in order to have the mean Place with Comparifon to the Extremes •, but if the mean Place found by Calculation, does not agree with the mean Place found by Comparifon, you aiuft take the Difference, and add to the mean Time, the Time anfwering to that Dif- ference, if the mean Time found by Calculation be lcffer ; but contrariwife, it must be fub- ftrafted if it be greater, in order to have the Time of the Solftice.

Example. The last Day of May, the apparent Meridian Altitude of the Sun was found at the Royal Obfervatory, 64 Dtg. 47 Min. 25 Sec. and the 22d Day of June following, the apparent Meridian Altitude was found 64 Deg. 28 Min. 15 Sec. from whence we know, by having the Difference of Declination at those Times, that the Sun came to the Parallel of the first Obfervation, the 22c! of June, at 4 Hours 12 Minutes in the Morning; and confe- quently the mean Time between the Obfervations, was on the 2 2d of June, at 2 Hours 6 Minutes in the Morning.

Now by Tables, the true Place of the Sun at the Time of the first Obfervation, was 2 Signs 18 Deg. 5S Min. 23 Sec. and at the Time of the last it was 3 Signs, 11 Deg. 4 Min. 52 Sec. and :ii the middle Time 3 Signs, 1 Min. 56 Sec. But the Difference of the two ex- treme Places is 22 Deg. 6 Min. 29 Sec. half of which is 1 1 Deg. 3 Min 15 Sec. which added to the mean Place, makes 3 Signs, 1 Min. 38 Sec. which is the mean Place with comparifon to the Extremes. Again, The Difference between the mean Place, by Calculation 3 Signs, 1 Min. 56 Sec. and the mean Place by Comparifon, is 18 Seconds, which anfwers to 7 Min. 18 Sec. of Time, which must be taken from the mean Time, because the mean Place by Cal- culation is greater than the mean Place by Comparifon. Therefore the Time of the Solftice was the nth of June, at 1 Hour, 58 Min. 18 Sec. in the Morning.

Note, The Error of a few Seconds, in the observed Altitude of the Sun, will caufe an alteration of an Hour in the true Time of the Solftice •, as in the proposed Example, 10 Se- conds, or thereabouts, in Altitude, will caufe an Error of an Hour-, whence the true Time of the Solftice cannot be had but with Instruments well divided, and several very exact Ob- fervations.

Obfervations made in the Royal Obfervatory at Paris, about the Time of the Solftice for finding the Height of the Pole, and the Suns greatefl Declination or Obliquity of the Ecliptick.

Deg. Min. Sec.

The apparent Meridian Altitude of the upper Limb of the Sun at the ^ Time of the Summer Solftice, gathered from several Obfervations, is found - i

Refraction to be fubft rafted -

Parallax to be added - - -

True Altitude of the upper Limb of the Sun -

Semidiameter of the Sun -

True Meridian Altitude of the Sun's Center -

At the Time of the Winter Solftice, the apparent Meridian Altitude of the } „
upper Limb of the Sun - ......

Refraction to be fubftrafted -

Parallax to be added ..._._

True Altitude of the Sun's upper Limb ...

Semidiameter of the Sun _-..,.

Then the true Distance of the Tropicks is - - - 7 - 46 58 7

The half, which is the greateft Declination of the Sun, is - - 23 29 3J.

The Height of the Equator above the Obfervatory - - - 41 09 59'.

Its Complement, which is the Height of the Pole - - - 48 50 00]-

Obfervations of the Polar Star.

By divers Obfervations of the greateft and least apparent Meridian Altitudes of the Polar Star, which is in the end of the Tail of the Little Bear, it is concluded that the apparent Altitude of the Pole, as M. Picardhis denoted it in his Book ot the Dimenfions of the Earth, between St James's and St Martin's Gates (about S. Jaq.ues de la Boucherie, at Paris) is 48 Deg. 52 Min. 20 Sec.

The Reduction being made according to the Distance of the Places, the apparent Height of the Pole at the Royal Obfervatory will be

The Convenable Refraction to that Height _____

Then the true Height of the Pole at the Obfervatory. For which let us take _____---_ And confequently the Height of the Equator will be

The true or apparent Time in which a Planet or fixed Star pajfes by the Meridian, being given, to find the difference of Right Afcenfion between the fixed Star, or Planet, and the Sun.

The given Time from Noon to or from the time of the PafTage of the Star or Planet by the Meridian, must be converted into Degrees, and what is required will be anfwered.

Example. Jupiter pafied by the Meridian at 10 Hours, 23 Min. 15 Sec. in the Morning, whose Distance in time from Noon, which is 1 Hour, 36 Min. 45 Sec. being converted into Degrees of the Equator, will give 24 Deg. 11 Min. 15 Sec. for the Difference of PJght Afcenfion between the Sun and Jupiter, in that Moment the Center of Jupiter pafied by the Meridian.

In this, and the following Problem, we have proposed the true or apparent Time, and not the mean Time; because the true Time is eafur to know by Obfervations of the Sun, than the mean Time. We fliall explain what is meant by mean Time, as likewise true or apparent Time, in the next Chapter.

The true Time between the Paffages of two fixed Stars by the Meridian being given, or else of a fixed Star and a Planet, to find their Afcenfional Difference.

The given Time between their Pafiages by the Meridian must be converted into Degrees of the Equator, and the Right Afcenfion of the true Motion of the Sun anfwering to that time, mull be added thereto ; then the Sum will be the Afcenfional Difference fought.

Example. Suppose between the Pafiages of the Great Tog, called Sirius, by the Meridian, and the Heart of the Lion named Regulus, there is elapfed 3 Hours, 20 Min. of time&gt; and the Right Afcenfion of the true Motion of the Sun, let be 7 Min. ■$$ Sec.

Whence converting 3 Hours, 20 Min. into Degrees of the Equator, and there will be had 50 Deg. to which adding 7 Min. 2,5 Sec. and the Sum 50 Deg. 7 Min. 05 Sec. will be the Afcenfional Difference between Sirius and Regulus.

You must proceed thus for the Afcenfional Difference of a fixed Star and a Planet, or of two Planets ; yet note, if the proper Motion of the Planet or Planets be confiderable be- tween both their Pafiages by the Meridian, regard must be had thereto.

How to obferve Eclipfes.

Amongft the Obfervations of Eclipfes, we have the Beginning, the End, and the Total Emer- fion, which may exactly enough be eftimated by the naked Eye, without Teiefcopes, except the Beginning and the End of Eclipfes of the Moon, where an Error of one or two Minutes may be made, because it is difficult certainly to determine the Extremity of the Shadow. But the Quantity of the Eclipfe, that is, the eclipfed Portion of the Sun and Moon's Disk, which is measured by Digits, or the 12th parts of the Sun and Moon's Diameter, and Mi- nutes, or the 60th parts of Digits, cannot be well known without a Telescope joined to fome Instrument. For an Eftimation made with the naked Eye is very fubject to Error, as it is eafy to fee in the Hiftory of ancient Eclipfes, altho they were observed by very able Astronomers.

The Astronomers who first used Teiefcopes furnifhed with but two Glafies, namely, a Convex Object-Glass, and a Concave Eye-Glass, in the Obfervations of Eclipfes, observed those of the Sun in the following manner. They caused a hole to be made in the Window- fhutter of a Room, which Room in the Day-time, when the Shutters were fluit, was darkened thereby ; thro' which Hole they put the Tube of a Telescope, in such manner, that the Rays of the Sun, passing thorough the Tube, might be received upon a white piece of Paper, or a Table-Cloth, upon which was first defcribed a Circle of a convenable bi^nefs, with five other Concentric Circles, equally distant from one another, which, with the Center, divided a Diameter of the outward Circle into 12 equal Parts. Then having ati jutted the Table-Cloth perpendicular to the Situation of the Tube of the Telescope, the lu- minous Image of the Sun was caft upon the Table-Cloth, which would full be greater ac- cording as the Table-Cloth was more distant from the Eye-Glass of the Telescope •, whence by moving the Tube forwards and backwards, they found a Place where the Image of the Sun appeared exactly equal to the outward Circle, and at that Distance they fixed the Table- Cloth, with the Tube of the Telescope, which compofed the Instrument for the said Ob- fervation. Afterwards they moved the Tube according to the Sun's Motion, to the End that the luminous Limb of it's Pifk might every where touch the outward Circle defcribed upon the Table-Cloth, by which means the Quantity of the eclipfed Portion was feen, and it's created: Obfcurity measured by the Concentric Circles j they denoted the Hour of every Phafe, by a Second Pendulum Clock, rectified and prepared for that purpofe. The fame Method is ftill observed by many Astronomers, who use also a Circular Reticulum, made with fix Concentric Circles upon very fine Paper, which mull be oiled, to rencer the Sun's linage more feniible. The greateft of the Circles ought exactly to contain the Image of the Sun in the Focus of the Object-Glass of a Telescope of 40 or 60 Feet; the fix Circles are equally distant, and divide the Diameter of the Sun in twelve equal digits. When the Faper is placed in the Focus of a great Telescope, the enlightened part of the Sun will very di- ftinctly be feen •, then the Eye-Glass is not used.

There are others who use a Telescope furnifhed with two Convex-Glafles, from whence the fame Effect; follows. But altho' the Use of a Telescope in this manner be very proper to obferve Eclipfes of the Sun, yet it is not fit to obferve Eclipfcs of the Moon, becaufc it's Li ff ht is not strong enough. Laftly, Others place a Micrometer in the common Focus of the Convex Lenses. Besides the Quantity of the Phafes of the Eclipfes of the- Sun and Moon (eafily known by the said Micrometer), we may have the Diameters of the Luminaries, and the Proportion of the Earth's Diameter to the Moon's, as well by the obfcure Protion of it's Disk, as by the luminous Portion and the Distance between it's Horns.

The Method of obferving Eclipfes by means of the Micrometer will be much better, if the Divisions to which the parallel Hairs are applied be made fo, that ;'.x Int :vals of the Hairs, may contain the Diameter of the Sun or Moon. For the moveable Hair pofited in the Middle of the Distance between the immoveable ones (which is not difficult to do), will fhew the Digits of the Eclipfe.

The fame Telescope and Micrometer may ferve for all the other Obfervations, and to measure Eclipfes •, as, to obferve the Paffage of the Earth's Shadow over the Spots of the Moon, in Lunar Eclipfes.

There yet remains one confiderable Difficulty, and that is, to make a new Division. of the Micrometer ferving as a common Reticulum for all Obfervations •, for it fcarcely hap- pens in an Age in two Eclipfes, that the apparent Diameters of the Sun and Moon are the fame.

Therefore M. de la Hire has invented a new Reticulum, which having all the Uses of the Micrometer, may fer/e to obferve all Eclipfes, it being adapted to all apparent Diameters of the Sun and Moon, and it's Divisions are firm and solid enough to refift all the Viciflltudes of the Air, altho' they are as fine as Hairs.

The Conftruction and Use of this Reticulum is thus : First, Take two Object Lenses of Telescopes of the fame Focus, or nighly the fame, which join together. As for Example, The Focus of two Lenses together of eight Feet, which is the fit Length of a Telescope for obferving Eclipfes, unlefs the Beginning and the End of Solar ones, which require a longer Telescope exactly to determine them.

Secondly, We find from Tables, that the greateft Diameter of the Moon at the Altitude of 90 Deg. is 34 Min. 6 Sec. To which adding 10 Sec. and there will arife 34 Min. 16 Sec. Therefore fay, As Radius is to the Tangent of 17 Min. 8 Sec. (the half of 34 Min. 16 Sec.) So is 8 Feet, or the focal Length of the two Lenses to the Parts of a Foot, which dou- bled will fubtend an Angle of 34 Min. 16 Sec. in the Focus of the Telescope, and this will be the Diameter of the said Circular Reticulum.

Thirdly, Upon a very flat, clear, and well polifhed Piece of Glass, defcribe lightly with the Point of a Diamond, faftened to one of the Legs of a Pair of Compalfes, fix Concentric Circles, equally distant from each other. The Semidiameter of the greateft and last let be equal to the fourth Term before found. Likewise draw two Diameters to the greateft Circic at Right Angles. The fiat Piece of Glass being thus prepared and put into the Tube, of which we have before fpoken, and in the Focus of the Telescope, will be a very proper Reticulum for obferving Solar and Lunar Eclipfes, and it will divide all the apparent Dia- meters into twelve equal Parts or Digits, as we are now going to explain.

It is manifefl: from Dioptricks, that all Rays coming from Points of a distant Object:, after their Refraction by t\v*o convex Lenses, either joined or ibmething distant from each other, will be painted in the common Focus of the said Lenses, which mil appear so much the greater, according as the Lenses be distant from one another ; 10 that they will appear the fmallelt when the Lenses are joined together. Therefore if the Objecl-Glafles used in this Conftruction, be each put into a Tube, and one of these Tubes Aides within the other; then the said Lenses being thus joined, the Image of adistant Object, whose Rays fall upon the Lenses under an Angle of 34 Min. 16 Sec. will exceed the Moon's greateft apparent Diameter by 10 Sec. Therefore in moving the Lenses by little and little, such a Pofition may be found, wherein the Diameter of the greateft Circle on the Reticulum pofited in the Fo- cus, will anfwer to an Angle of 34 Min. 16 Sec. For the Image ot an Object perceived under a less Angle, may be equal to the Image of the fame Object perceived under a greater Angle, according to the different Lengths of the Foci. But the Reticulum is in a feparate Tube, and so it may be removed at a Distance at pleafure from the Object-Glasses. We now proceed to lay down two different Ways of finding the Pofitions of [the Lenies and Reticulum, proper to receive the different Diameters of the Sun and Moon.

First, In a very level and proper Place for making Obfervations with GlafTes, place a Board, with a Sheet of Paper thereon, directly expofed to the Tube's Length, having two black Lines drawn upon it parallel to each other, and at such a Distance trom each other, that it fubtends an Angle of 34 Min. 6 Sec. so that the Distance of the said two Lines, reprefented iu the Focus of the Object-GlafTts, may likewise fubtend an Angle of 34 Min. 6 Sec. And this may be found in reasoning thus, (as we have already done for the Micro- meter). As Radius is to the Tangent of 17 Min. 3 Sec. So is the Distance from the Tube of the Object-Glasses to the Broad, To half the Distance that the parallel Lines on the Paper must be at. And thus we mail find by Experience the Place of each Object-Glass, and the Reticulum in the common Focus, in such manner that the Reprefentation of the two black Lines on the Paper, embraces entirely the Diameter of the greateft Circle of the said Reticulum. Now we fet down 34 Min. 6 Sec. upon the Tubes, in each Pofition of the Lenses and their Foci, or the Reticulum, that so the Lenses and Reticulum may be adjufted to their exact Distance, every time an Angle of 34 Deg. 6 Min. is made use of.

Again, Let the said Board and white Paper be placed further from the Tube, in such manner, that the Distance between the parallel Lines on the Paper fubtend, or is the Base of an Angle of 33 Min. for example, whose Vertex is at the Lenses of the Telescope : which may be done, in faying, As the Targent of 16 Min. 30 Sec. is to Radius •, So is half the Interval of the parallel Lines on the Paper, To the Distance of the Board from the Lenses. Now in this Pofition of the Telescope and Board, the Pofition of the Lenses and Reticulum between themfelves must be found ; so that the Reprefentation of the parallel Lines, which appear very diftinctly in the Focus of the Lenses, occupies the whole Diameter of the greateft Circle on the Reticulum. This being done, the Number ^3 Min. must be made upon the Tubes, in the Places wherein each of the Lenses and Reticulum ought to be. Pro- ceed in this manner for the Angles of 32 Min. 31 Min. 30 Min. and 29 Min.

If the Distances, denoted upon the Tubes between the different Pofitions of the Lenses and the Reticulum, anfwering to a Minute, be divided into 60 equal Parts, we shall have their Pofitions for every Second ; and by this means the fame Circle of the Reticulum may be accommodated to all the different apparent Diameters of the Sun and Moon, and the Diameter of the greateft Circle being divided into 12 equal Parts, it will ferve to measure the Quantities of all folar and lunar Eclipfes.

The second Method taken from Opticks, being not founded upon so great a Number of Experiments as the former, may perhaps appear eafier to some Perfons •, for the Foci of both the Lenses being known, fay, As the Sum of the focal Lengths of the Lenses (whether they be equal or not) less the Distance between the Lenses, is to the focal Length of the out- ward Lense, less the Distance between the Lenses ; So is this fame Term, to a fourth, which being taken from the focal Length of the outward Lens, there remains the Distance from the outward Lens, to the common Focus of the Lenses, which is the Place of the Reticulum.

The Pofition of the common Focus of the Lenses may also be known by this Method;- when they be joined, in using the aforsaid Analogy, without having any regard to the Di- ftance between the Lenses. which is computed from the Places of the Lenses Centers ; therefore in fuppofmg several different Distances between the Object-Lenses, the Length of their Foci will he had, that is, the Place of the Reticulum, correfpondent to each Di- ftance.

Again, fay, As the known focal Length is to the Semidiameter of the Reticulum, be it what it will •, So is Radius, to the Tangent of the Angle anfwering to the Semidiameter of the Reticulum. By this Method we may likewise have the Magnitude of the said Reticu- lum, in faying, As Radius is to the Tangent of an Angle of 17 Min. 3 Sec. So is the focal Length of the Lenses, to the Semidiameter of the outward concentnek Circle. Having thus found the Minutes and Seconds fubtended by the Diameter of the greateft Circle of the Reticulum, according to the different Intervals of the Lenses, they must be wrote upon each Tube of the Lenses and Reticulum, and the Distances between the Terms found, di- vided into Seconds, as is mentioned in the former Method. And thus may the Pofitions of the Lenses and Reticulum be foon found, which shall contain the apparent Diameters of the Sun or Moon, according as they appear. If it be found very difficult to draw exactly the concentrick Circles upon the Piece of Glass, you need but draw thirteen right Lines there- on with the Point of a Diamond, equally distant and parallel to each other, with another rip-he Line perpendicular to them ; but the Length of this Perpendicular between the two extreme Parallels, mud be equal to the Diameter of the Reticulum, found in the manner aforsaid. This Reticulum may be used inftead of one compofed of Hairs.

A plain thin Piece of Glass, having Lines drawn thereon with a very fine Point of a Dia- mond, may likewise be used in an Aftronomical Telescope, &c. for if it be adjufted in its proper Frame, in the manner as is directed in the Micrometer, the Lines drawn thtreon may be used inftead of the parallel Hairs. I am of opinion, that the aforsaid Reticula are very useful in practical Aftronomy, they not being fubject to the Inconftancies of the Air, of being gnawed by Infects, Or to the Motions of the Instrument, which the Hairs are.

There are those who prefer Hairs, to Lines drawn upon a Piece of Glass, whose Surface may caufe some Obfcurity to the Objects, or if it be not very flat, there may some Error arife: but if they have a mind to avoid these Difficulties, which are of no confequence, as we know by Experience, they may use ftraight Glass-Threads, inftead of Hairs : for fome of these may be procured as fine as Hairs, and of Strength enough to refift the Incon- ftancies of the Air.

Although the Phafes or Appearances of the Eclipfes of the Moon, apply'd by Astronomers to Aftronomical and Geographical Uses, may be observed much eafier and exacter by our Reticulum, than by the ancient Methods ; yet it must be acknowledged, that the Immerfions into, and Emerfions of the Moon's Spots out of the Earth's Shadow, may more conve- niently be observed, because of their great Number, than the Phafes, and that there is less Preparation is using a Telescope, which need be only fix Feet in length : and in order for this, a Map of the Moon's Disk, when it is at the full, must be procured, wherein are denoted the proper Names of the Spots, and principal Places appearing on its Disk. This may be found in the reformed Aftronomy of R. P. Riccioli^ &c.

There are great Advantages arifing from Obfervations of Eclipfes, for if the exact Time of the Beginning of an Eclipfe of the Moon, of it's total Immerfion in the Shadow, of it's Emerfion and it's End, as likewise of the Paffage of the Earth's Shadow by the Spots on it's Surface, be observed, we shall have the Difference of Longitude of the two Places wherein the Obfervations are made; this is known to all Astronomers. But since Lunar Eclipfes feldom happen, so as that the Difference of Longitude may thereby be concluded, the Eclipfes of Jupiter *s Satellites may be observed inftead of them ; but principally of the first, whose Motion about Jupiter being very fwift, one may make several Obfervations thereof during the Space of one Year ; and from thence the Difference of Longitude of the two Places, wherein the said Obfervations are made, may be had.

Neverthelefs you must take notice, that Lunar Eclipfes may much eafier be observed, than the Eclipfes of Jupiter's Satellites, which cannot be eafily and exactly done without a Telescope of twelve Feet in length •, whereas the Phafes of the Beginning or End, or of the Immerfion and Emerfion of Lunar Eclipfes, may be observed without a Telescope, and the Immerfions and Emerfions of its Spots with one of an indifferent length.

M. Caffmi, a very excellent Astronomer of the Academy of Sciences, publifhed in the Year 1693, exact T-.bles of the Motions of Jupiter's Satellites ; therefore in comparing the Times of the Immerfion or Emerfion of Jupiter's first Satellite, found by the Tables fitted for the Obfervatory (at Paris) with the Obfervations thereof made in any other PJace, we shall have, by the Difference of Time, the Difference of Longitude of the Obfervatory, and the Place wherein the Obfervations were made : which may be confirmed in obferving the fame Phsenomena in both Places.

It is proper here to inform Obfervators of one Cafe, which often hinders an exact Ob- fervation of Jupiter's Satellites; which is, that in a ferene Night, we often find the Light of Jupiter and its Satellites, observed thro' the Telescope, to diminish by little and little, so that it is impoffible to determine exactly the true Times of the Immerfion and Emerfion of the Satellites. Now the Caufe of this Accident proceeds from the Object-Glass of the Telescope, which is covered over with Dew, and thereby a great Number of Rays of Light, coming from Jupiter and its Satellites, is hinder'd from coming thro' the Object- Glass to the Eye. A very fure Remedy for this, is, to make a Tube of blotting Paper; that is, a Tube about two Feet long, and big enough to go about the End of the Tube of the Telescope next to the Object-Glass, must be made, in rolling two or three Sheets of finking Paper upon each other. This Tube being adjufted about the Tube of the Te- lefcope, will fuck in or drink up the Dew, and hinder its coming to the Object-Glass -, and by this Means v/e may make our Obfervations conveniently.

Of the ConftruElion and Use of an Inflrument J&gt; hewing the Eclipfes of the Sun and Moon, the Months a?id Lunar Tears y as also the EpaSis.

Fig- 13. PT"* H I S Inflrument was invented by M. de la Hire, and is compofed of three round

J[ Plates of Brass, or Pieces of Pafte-board, and an Index which turns about a common Center upon the Face of the upper Plate, which is the least. There are two circular Bands, the one blue, and the other white, in which are made little round Holes ; the out- ward of which fhews the New Moons, and the Image of the Sun ; and the inward ones, the Full Moons, and the Image of the Moon. The*. Limb of this Plate is divided into 12 lunar Months, each containing 29 Days, 12 Hours, 44 Minutes •, but in such manner, that the End of the 12th Month, which makes the Beginning of the second lunar Year, may furpass the first New Moon by the Quantity of 4 of 1 yy Divisions s denoted upon the middle Plate.

Upon the Limb of this Plate is faftened an Index, one of whose Sides, which is in the fiducial Line, makes part of a right Line, tending to the Cente'r of the Inflrument ; which Line alfb pafTes thro' the Middle of one of the outward'Holes, fhewing the first New Moon of the lunar Year. Note, The Diameter of the Holes is equal to the Extent of about 4 Degrees.

The Limb of the second Plate is divided into 1 79 equal Parts, ferving for so many lunar Years, each of which is 354. Days, and about 9 Hours. The first Year begins at the Num- ber 179, at which the last ends.

The Years accomplifhed are each denoted by their Numbers 1,2, 3, 4, &c. at every fourth Division, and which make four times a Revolution to compleat the Number 179, as may be feen in the Figure of this Plate. Each of the lunar Years comprehend four of the afore- said Divisions : So that in this Figure they anticipate one upon the other four of the said 179 Di virions of the Limb.

Upon the Limb of the fame Plate, under the Holes of the first, there is a Space coloured black, anfwering to the outward Holes, and which fhews the Eclipfes of the Sun, and an- other red Space, anfwering to the innermost Holes, fhewing the Eclipfes of the Moon. The Quantity of each Colour appearing through the Holes, fhews the Eignefs of the Eclipfe. The Middle of the two Colours, which is the Middle of the Moon's Node, anfwers on one Side to the Division marked 4 * of a Degree ; and on the other Side it anfwers to the opposite Number.

The Figure of the coloured Space is fhewn upon this second Plate, and it's Amplitude or Extent fhews the Limits of Eclipfes.

The third and greateft Plate, which is underneath the others, contains the Days and Months of common Years. The Divisions begin at the first Day of March, to the End that a Day may be added to the Month of February, when the Year is Bijfextile. The Days of the Year are defcribed in form of a Spiral, and the Month of February goes out beyond the Month of March, because the lunar Year is fhorter than the folar one; so that the 15th Hour of the 10th Day of February anfwers to the Beginning of March : But after having reckoned the last Day of February, you must go back again to have the first of March. T fie re are thirty Days marked before the Month of March, which ferve to find the Epacts.

Note, That the Days, as they are here taken, are not accomplifhed purfuant to the Use of Astronomers, but as they are vulgarly reckoned, beginning on a Minute, and ending at the Minute of the following Day. Therefore every time that the first Day, or any other of a Month is fpoken of, we underftand the Space of that Day marked in the Divisions ; for we here reckon the current Days according to vulgar Use.

In the Middle of the upper Plate are wrote the Epochs, fhewing the Beginning of the lunar Years, with refptct to the folar Years, according to the Gregorian Calendar, and for the Meridian of Paris. The Beginning of the first Year, which must be denoted by o, and anfwers to the Division 179, happened in the Year 1680 at Paris, the 29th of February at 14 ! Hours. The End of the first lunar Year, being the Beginning of the second, anfwers to rhe Division marked 1, which happened at Paris in the Year 1681, the 27th of February, at 23 ! Hours, in counting fucceflivcly 24 Hours from one Minute to the other. And left there fhould be an Error in comparing the Divisions of the Limb of the second Plate with the Divisions of the Epochs of the lunar Years anfwering them, we have put the fame Numbers r.o them both.

We have fet down fucccflively the Epochs of all the lunar Years, from the Year 1700 trJ the Year 1750, to the End that the Use of this Instrument may more cafily ferve to make each of the aforsaid folar and lunar Years agree together. As to the other Years of our Cycle of 179 Years, it will be eafy to render it compleat, in adding 354 Days, 8 Hours* 48 '■ Minutes for each lunar Year.

The Index extending itfelf from the Center of the Instrument to the Limb of the greateft Plate, ferves to compare the Divisions of one Plate with those of the two others. And if this Instrument be applied to a Clock, a perfect and accomplifhed Instrument in all it's Parts will be had.

The Table of Epochs, which is fitted for the Meridian of Paris, may eafily be reduced to other Meridians ; if for the Places eaftward of Paris, the Time of the Difference of Meri- dians be added ; and for Places weft ward, the Time of the Difference of Meridians be fubftracted.

It is proper to place the Table of Epochs in the Middle of the upper Plate, to the End that it may be feen with the Instrument.

How to make the , Divisions upon the Plates.

The Circle of the greateft Plate is so divided, that 368 Deg. 2 Min. 42 Sec. may compre- hend 354 Days, and fomething less than 9 Hours j from whence it is manifest, that the Circle mult contain 346 Days, 15 Hours, which may without fenfible Error be taken for ~ of a Day. Now to divide a Circle into 346 2 equal Parts, reduce the whole into third Parts, which in this Example make 1040 ; then feek the greateft Multiple of 3 less than 1040, which may be halved. Such a Number will be found in a double Geometrical Progrefiionj whose first Term is 3 ; as for Example, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, 96, 192, 384, 768.

Now the 9th Number of this Progreffion is the Number fought. Then fubftract 768 from 1040, there will remain 272, and find how many Degrees, Minutes, and Seconds, this remaining Number makes ; by faying, As 1040 is to 360 Deg. So is 272 to 94 Deg. 9 Min. 23 Sec.

Therefore take an Angle of 94 Deg. 9 Min. 23 Sec. from the said Circle, and divide the remaining Part of the Circle always into half* after having made 8 Subdivifions, you will come to the Number 3, which will be the Arc of one Day ; by which likewile dividing the Arc of 94 Deg. 9 Min. 23 Sec. the whole Circle will be found divided into 3464 Days; for there will be 256 Days in the greateft Arc, and 90 I Days in the other. Each of these Spaces anfwer to 1 Deg. 2 Min. 18 Sec. as may be feen in dividing 360 by 346 4&gt; ar &gt;d ten Days make 10 Deg. 23 Min. And thus a Table may be made, ferving to divide the Plate.

Those Days are afterwards diftributed to each of the Months of the Year, according to the Number correfponding to them, in beginning at the Month of March, and continuing on to the 15th Hour of the 10th of February, which anfwers to the Beginning of March, and the other Days of the Month of February go on farther above March.

The Circle of the Second Plate mult be divided into 179 equal Parts ; to do which, feek the greateft Number which may be continually bifected to Unity, and be contained exactly in 179 : you will find 128 to be this Number, which take from 179, and there remains 51. Now find what part of the Circumference of the Circle the said Remainder makes •, in fay- ing, As 179 Parts is to 360 Deg. So is 51 Parts to 102 Deg. 34 Min. 11 Sec.

Therefore having taken from the Circle an Arc of 102 Deg. 34 Min. 11 Sec. divide the remaining Part of the Circle always into half; and after having made seven Subdivifions, you will come to Unity: whence this part of the Circle* will be divided into 128 equal Parts ; and then the remaining 51 Parts may be divided, by iielp of the last Opening of the Com- passes. Wherefore the whole Circumference will be found divided into 179 equal Parts* every of which anfwers to 2 Deg. 40 Sec. as may be feen in dividing 360 by 179.

Laftly, To divide the Circle of the upper Plate, take one fourth of it's Circumference, and add to it one of the 179 Parts or Divisions of the Limb of the middle Plate •, the Com- panies opened to the Extent of the Quadrant thus augmented, being turned four Times over, will divide the Circle in the Manner as it ought to be : for in fubdividing every of the Quar- ters into three equal Parts, one will have twelve Spaces for the twelve Lunar Months, in such manner, that the End of the 12th Month, which makes the Beginning of the Lunar Year, exceeds the first New Moon by 4 of the 179 Divisions, marked upon the middle Plate.

Use of this Instrument.

A Lunar Year being proposed, to find the Days of the Solar Year correfponding to it, in which the New and Full Moons, together with the Eclipfes, ought to happen.

For Example ; Let the 24th Lunar Year of the Table of Epochs be proposed, which an- fwers to the Division 24 of the middle Plate. Fix the Fiducial Line of the Index on the Upper Plate, over the Division marked 24, in the middle Plate, wherein the Beginning of the 25th Lunar Year is •, and feeing by the Table of Epochs, that that Beginning tails upon the 14th Day of June, of the Year 1703, at 9 Hours, 52 Minutes, turn the two upper

Plates together, in the Pofition they are in, till the Fiducial Line of the Index, fattened to the upper Plate, anfwers to the ioth Hour, or thereabouts, of the 4th of June, denoted upon the undermost Plate ; at which time, the first New Moon of the propoied Lunar Year hap- pens : for then the Fiducial Line passes thro' the middle' of the Hole of the first New Moon of the said Lunar Year.

Afterwards, without changing the Situation of the three Plates, extend a Thread from the Center of the Instrument, or the moveable Index, making it pass thro' the middle of the Hole of the first Full Moon •, and the Fiducial Line will anfv/er to the beginning of the 29th Day of June, at 4 Hours and a Quarter •, which is the time that that Full Moon was totally eclipfed, as appears by the red Colour quite filling the Hole, fhewing the Full Moon.

By the fame means we may know, that at the time of the Full Moon, which happened about the third Hour in the Morning, of the 14th of July, there was a partial Eclipfe of the Sun.

If we proceed farther, the Eclipfes may be known which happened in the Month of December, in the Year 1703, and towards the beginning of the following Year. But because the ioth New Moon goes out beyond the 28th Day ot February, having brought the Index to the 28th Day of February, move the two upper Plates backwards, conjointly with the Index (in the Pofture they are found in) until the Fiducial Line happens over the be- ginning of March -, whence moving the Index over all the Holes of the New and Full Moons, and the last Plate will fhew the times in which the Eclipfes ought to happen.

But because the 13th New Moon is the first of the fucceeding Lunar Year, which an- fwers to the Number 25 of the Divisions of the middle Plate, leave the two undermost Plates in the pofture they are found, and move forwards the upper Plate 'till the Fiducial Line meets with the Number 25 of the middle Plate, at which Point it will fhew upon the greateft Plate, the first New Moon of the 26th Lunar Year, according to the order of our Epoch, which happened the 2d Day of June, 18 Hours 40 Minutes of the Year 1704; and afterwards moving the Index over the middle of the Holes of the New and Full Moons, it ■will fhew upon the last Plate the Days they happened on, as well as the Eclipfes to the End of February : after which, the fame Operation must be made for the preceding Year, that is, that after having come to the last Day of February, you must proceed backwards to the first Day of March.

We might likewise find the Beginnings of all the Lunar Years without using the Table of Epochs •, but since it is not poffible to adjuft the Plates and the Index so exactly one upon another, as that some Error may not happen, which will augment itfelf from Year to Year, the said Table of Epochs will ferve to rectify the Use of this Instrument.

In placing the Fiducial Line of the Index upon the Moon's Age, between the Days of the Lunar Months, denoted upon the Limb of the upper Plate, the correfpondent Days of the common Months will be fhewn, and the Flours nearly, upon the Limb of the lower Plate.

Note, That the Calculations of the Table of Epochs are made for the mean Time of the Full Moons, which supposes the Motions of the Sun and Moon always equable ; from whence there will be found some Difference between the apparent Times of the New Moons, Full Moons, and Eclipfes, as they appear from the Earth, and the times found by that Table.

The proper Motions of the Sun and Moon, as well as those of the other Planets, appear to us fometimes fwift, and fometimes flow ; which apparent Inequality in part proceeds from their Orbits being not concentric with the Earth, and in part from hence, that the equal Arcs of the Ecliptick, which are oblique to the Equator, do not always pass thro' the Me- ridian with the equal Parts of the Equator. Astronomers, for the eafe of Calculation, have fitted a Motion which they call mean or equable, in supposing the Planets to defcribe equal Arcs of their Orbits, in equal Times. That Time which they call true or apparent, is the measure of true or apparent Motion, and mean Time is the measure of mean Motion. They have likewise invented Rules for reducing mean Time to true or apparent Time, and contrariwife, for reducing true or apparent Time to mean Time.

To find by Calculation whether there will happen an Eclipfe at the time of the New or Full Moon.

For an Eclipfe of the Sun, multiply by 7361, the Number of Lunar Months accom- plifhed from that which begun the 8th of January, 1701, according to the Gregorian Calendar, to that which you examine, and add to the Product the Number 33890 •, then divide the Sum by 43200 ; and after the Division, without having regard to the Quotient, examine the Remainder, or the difference between the Divisor and the Remainder : for if either of them be less then 4060, there will happen an Eclipfe of the Sun.

But to find an Eclipfe of the Moon, likewise multiply by 7361, the Number of Lunar Months, accomplifhed from that which begun the 8th of January, 1701, to the New Moon preceding the Full Moon examined •, add to the Product 37326, and divide the Sum by 43200. The Division being made, if the Remainder, or the difference between the Remainder and the Divisor, be less than 2800, there will be an Eclipfe of the Moon,

Note. An Eclipfe of the Sun or Moon will be so much the greater, as the Remainder or

Difference is lefTer ; and contrariwife.

Example of an Eclipfe of the Sun.

It is required to find, whether at the New Moon of the 22d of May, in the Year 1705* there happened an Eclipfe of the Sun.

From the 8th of January? 1701. to the 22d of May, 1705, there were accomplilhed 54 Lunations. Multiply, according to the Rule, the Number 54 by 7361, and add to the Product 33890: the Sum being divided by 43200, there will remain 42584* which is greater than 4060 ; and the Difference between the Remainder 42584, and the Divisor 43200, is 616, which is less than 4060 : therefore there was then an Eclipfe of the Sun.

Example of an Eclipfe of the Moon.

It is required to find whether the Full Moon of the 27th of April, in the Year 1706, was cclipfed.

From the 8th of January, in the Year 1701, to the New Moon preceding the Full Moon in queftion, there were 65 Lunar Months accomplished ; therefore having multiplied, accord- ing to the Rule, the Number 65 by 7361, and added to the Product ^^26, the Sum will be 5 1 579 1 ; which being divided by 43200, without having any regard to the Quotient, the Remainder will be 40591, greater than 2800. The Difference between the Divisor and the Remainder is 609, which is less than 2800 ; therefore there was an Eclipfe of the Moon the 27th day of April, 1 706.

CHAP. V.

The Defcriptiofi of a Second-Pe?tdulu7n-Clock for Agronomical

Obfervations.

THE Figure here adjoined, fhews the Composition of a Second-Pendulum-Clock, pf a te ij] whose two Plates A A and BB, are about half a Foot long, and two Inches and a Fig. 1. half broad, having four little Pillars at the four Corners, that so they may be an Inch and a half distant from each other. Thefe Plates ferve to fuftain the Axes of the principal Wheels, the first of which being the loweft, and figured C C, hath 80 Teeth. The Axis of this Wheel hath a little Pulley, having several Iron Points D D round about the fame, in order to hold the Cord to which the Weights are hung, in the manner as we shall ex- plain by and by. The Wheel C C, being turned by the Weight, likewise turns the Pinion, E of eight Teeth, end so moves the Wheel F, which is faftened to the Axis of the Pinion E •, this Wheel hath forty-eight Teeth, which falling into the Teeth of the Pinion G, whose Number is eight, moves the Wheel H, (made in figure of a Crown) confiding of forty- eight Teeth. Again, The Teeth of this last Wheel fall into the Teeth of the Pinion I, whose Number is twenty-four, and the Axis thereof being upright, carries the Wheel K of 15 Teeth, which are made in Figure of a Saw: Over this Wheel is a crofs Axis, having two Palats L L, fuftained by the Tenons N, Qjmd P, which are faftened to the Plate B B. It rnuft be observed, that as to the Tenons N and Q, the lower part Q^ appearing, hath a great Hole drilled therein, that the Axis LM may pass thro' it ; this part Q, which is faftened to the lower part of the Tenon N, likewise holds the Wheel K, and the Pinion I. There is a great Opening in the Plate BB, in order for the Axis and the Palats to go out be- yond it. One end of this Axis (as I have already mentioned) goes into the Tenon, P, and so moves eafier than if it was fuftained by the Plate B B, and then go out be- yond the said Plate, which it must neceffarily do, that so the little Stern S, fixed thereto, may freely vibrate with the said Axis, and the Teeth of the Wheel K alternately meet the Palats LL, as in common Clocks.

The lower part of the little Stern S is bent, and a flit made therein, thro' which goes an Iron-Rod, ferving as a Pendulum, having the Lead X at the End thereof. This Rod is faftened in V to a very thin Piece of Brass or Steel, which vibrates between two cycloidal Cheeks TT, (one of which is feen in Fig. 1, and both in Fig. 2.) of which more hereafter.

It is eafy to perceive in what manner this Clock goes by the Force of the Wheels car- ried round by the Weight: for the Motion is continued by the Pendulum V X, when the said Pendulum is fct a-going ; because the little Stern S, altho' very light, being in moti- on, not only goes with the Pendulum, but likewise by its Vibrations ftill affifts the Mo- tion some small matter, and ib renders it perpetual, which otherwise by Friction and the Air's refiftance, would come to nothing. But because the Property of the Pendulum is to move equably always, provided its length be the fame, the said Pendulum will caufe the Wheel K to go neither too faft nor too flow, (as happens to Clocks not having Pendulums) every Tooth is Obliged to move equably ; therefore the other Wheels, and the Hands of the Dial-plate, are necefiarily constrained to perform their Revolutions equably. Whence if there mould be some Delault in the Conftruction of the Clock, or if the Axes of the Wheels do not move freely on account of the Intemperance of the Air, provided the Clock does not ftand ftill ; we have nothing to fear from these Inequalities, for the Clock will always go true.

As to the Hands for fhewing the Hours, Minutes, and Seconds, we difpofe them in the following manner. The third Plate Y Y is parallel to the two precedent ones, and is three Lines distant from A A. We defcribe a Circle about the Center a, which is the middle of the Axis, carrying the Wheel C, continued out beyond the Plate A A. This Circle is divided into 12 equal Parts, for the Hours. We likewise defcribe another Circle about the said Center, and divide it into 60 equal Parts, for the Minutes in an Hour. We place the Wheel b upon the Axis R, continued out beyond the Plate A A, faftened to a little Tube, going out beyond the Plate Y Y to e. This Tube is put about the Axis R, and turns about with it, in such manner neverthelefs, that it may be turned only when there is neceffity. We place the Hand fhewing the Minutes in e, which makes one Revolution in an Hour. The beforementioncd Wheel b moves the Wheel h, having the fame Number of Teeth as that, viz. 30 ; and the Teeth of the Wheel/, falls into the Teeth of the Pinion h, whose Number is 6, and they have a little Axis common to them, which is partly fuftained by the Tenon d. This Pinion moves round the Wheel /, having 72 Teeth, faftened to a little 'Tube g, which is put about the Tube carrying the Wheel b. Now the Hand fhew- ing the Hours mu ft be placed upon the Extremity of the Tube^, and will be fhorter than that denoting the Minutes. But that one may not be deceived in reckoning of Seconds, we place a round Plate m m upon the Extremity of the Axis of the Wheel H, divided in- to 60 equal Parts, and make an opening Z in the Plate Y, in the upper Part of which Open- ing is a small Point 0, which, as the said Plate turns about, fhews the Seconds. The Dif- pofition of the Hands and Circles will be eafier feen in Figure 3, which reprefents the Outfide of the Clock.

Now having fpoken of the Difpofition of the Wheels, the next thing is to determine the Length of the Pendulum, which must be such, that every of its Vibrations be made in a Second of Time. This Length must be 3 Feet 8 4 Lines (of Paris *) from the Point of Sufpenfion, which is the Center of the cycloidal Cheeks, to the Center of the Weight X.

We now proceed to fay fomething concerning the Times of the Revolutions of the Wheels and the Hands, in order to confirm what we have already said of the Number of Teeth. Now one Revolution of the Wheel CC, makes ten Revolutions of the Wheel F, fixty of the Wheel H, and one hundred and twenty of the upper Wheel K, which having 15 Teeth, and alternately pufhing the Palats L L, makes thirty Vibrations, which are fo many goings and comings of the Pendulum VX. Whence 120 Revolutions of the Wheel K, is equal to 3600 Vibrations of the Pendulum, which are the Seconds contained in one Hour ; and so the Wheel C makes one Revolution in an Hour, and the Hand e faftened thereto, mews the Minutes ; and because the Wheel b makes it's Revolution in the fame time, (viz. an Hour) the Wheel h hath the fame Number of Teeth as b, and the Pinion on the fame Axis hath fix Teeth j and since the Number of Teeth of the Wheel/ is twelve times greater, the said Wheel will go round once in 12 Hours, as likewise the Hand g faftened thereto. Finally, Because the Wheel H is making fixty Revolutions in the fame time the Wheel CC is making one, therefore the circular Plate Z, having the Seconds deno- ted thereon, will move once round in a Minute ; and so every 60th part of the said Plate will fhew one Second.

The Weight X, at the end of the Pendulum, must weigh about 3 Pounds, and be of Lead covered with Brass. Regard must not only be had to its Weight, but likewise to its Figure, which is of Confequence, because the least Refiftance of the Air is prejudicial thereto j whence We make it in form of a Convex Cylinder a, whose ends are pointed, as appears in Figure 3. wherein the Pendulum is reprefented, tho' the Weights at the end of the Pendulums made for these Clocks used at Sea are in the Figure X, in form of a Lens, this Figure being found more proper than the other. Fig. 3# In the fame Figure may likewise be feen the manner of the Difpofition of the Weight b,

in order to so move the Clock, that it may not ftand ftill while the Weight b is drawing up ; and this is done by means of a Cord, one end of which must first be faftened to a piece of Iron fixed to the Plate A A, (of Figure 1.) and then it must be put about the Pulley c, of the Weight b •, afterwards over the Pulley d, (which hath Iron Points round it in figure of the Teeth of a Saw, for hindering, left the Weight b fhould pull the Cord down all at once) then about the Pulley/ of the Weighty, and last of ail the other end of the said Cord must be fixed to some proper Place. Things being thus disposed, it is manifest that half of the Weight b moves the Wheels round, and that the Motion of the Clock doth not ceafe, when the Cord e is pulled with one's Hand in order to draw the Weight b up. Note, The Weight £ is for fuftaining the Weight £, and need not be near so big.

The Weight of b cannot be certainly determined by Reasoning, but the less it is the better, provided it be iufficient to make the Clock go. They weigh generally about fix Pounds in the belt Kind of these Clocks that have yet been made, whereof the Diameter of the Pulley D is one Inch, the Weight of the Pendulum X three Pounds, and it's Length three Feet 8 • Lines. Note, If this Clock be at the Height of a Man above the Ground, it will go 30 Hours.

We now proceed to fhew the Manner of making the Cycloidal Cheeks between which the Fig, 4, Pendulum fwings, and in which the whole Exadlnefs of the Clock confifls. In order to do which, defcribe the Circle AFBK, whose Diameter A B let be equal to half of the Length of the Pendulum ; aflume the equal Parts of the Circumference AC, CD, DE, E F°and AG, G H, H I, I K, and draw the Lines G C, H D, I E and K F, from one Division to the other, which Lines will be parallel. Now make the Line L M equal to the Arc AF, which divide into the fame Number of equal Parts as A F, and aflume one of these Parts, which lay off upon the Line CG, from C to N, and G to O. Again, Lay off two of the said equal Parts of the Line L M, upon the Line D H, from D to P, and from H to Q^ Moreover, Aflume three of the said equal Parts upon the Line L M, which lay off upon I E from E to R, and I to S. And finally, Aflume four of the said Parts (which is the whole Length of the Line L M), and lay off upon K F, from F to T, and K to V ; and so of other Parts, if there had been more of them affumed upon the Periphery of the Circle AFBK. Now if the Points N, P, R, T, as also O, &lt;£, S, V, be joined, we shall have the Figure of the Cycloidal-Cheeks (between which the Pendulum fwings), which must be afterwards cut out in Brass. To draw the Line L M equal to the Arc A F, af- fume the two Semi-Chords of the Arcs A F, which lay off upon the Line X V, from X to Y ; this being done, take the whole Chord of the Arc A F, and lay off from X to Z, and divide Z Y into three equal Parts ; one of which being laid off from Z to V, and the Line X V will be nearly the Length of the Arc A F.

The Use of this Instrument fufficiently appears from what hath been already said.

The principal Instruments that an Astronomer ought to have, besides a good Quadrant, and Pendulum Clock, is a Telescope seven or eight Feet long, having a Micrometer ad- jufted thereto, for obferving the Digits of Solar and Lunar Eclipfes, as likewise another of 15 or 16 Feet, for the Obfervation of Jupiter's Satellites ; and, if poflible, a parallactick In- ftrument to take the Parallaxes of the Stars.

ADDITIONS of Englijh Instruments.

Of Globes, Spheres , the Ajlronomical Quadrant \ a Micrometer, and Gunter'j- Quadrant.

CHAP. I.

Of the Globes.

SECTION I.

OF Globes there are two Kinds, viz. Celeftial and TerRestrial. The rTrft is a Repre- fentation of the Heavens, upon the Convex Surface of a material Sphere, contain- ing all the known Stars, after the manner that Astronomers, for the eafier knowing them, have divided them into Conftellations, or Figures of Men, Beafts, Fowls, Fifb.es, &V. according to the Refemblance they fancied each feledl Number of Stars formed. The other is the TerRestrial Globe, which is the Image of the Earth, on the Convex Surface of a ma- terial Sphere, exhibiting all the Kingdoms, Countries, Iflands, and other Places fituated upon it, in the fame Order, Figure, Dimenfions, Situation, and Proportion, refpecting one another as on the Earth itfelf.

There are ten eminent Circles upon the Globe, fix of which are called greater, and the four other lejfer Circles.

174 The ConflruSiion and Uses Book VI.

A kfter Circle is that which is parallel to a greater, as the Tropicks and Polar Circles are to the Equator, and as the Circles of Altitude are to the Horizon.

The great Circles are,

I. The Horizon, which is a broad wooden Circle encompassing the Globe about, having two Notches, one in the North, the other in the South part thereof, for the Brazen Me- ridian to fland, or move round in, when the Globe is to be fet to a particular Latitude.

There are ufually reckoned two Horizons : First, The Viftble or Senjible Horizon, which may be conceived to be made by some great Plane, or the Surface of the Sea ; and which di- vides the Heavens into two Hemifpheres, the one above, the other (apparently) below the Level of the Earth.

This Circle determinates the Rifing and Setting of the Sun, Moon, or Stafcs, in any par- ticular Latitude : for when any one of them comes juft to the Eastern edge of the Horizon, then we fay it Rifes ; and when it doth so at the Western edge, we fay it Sets. And from hence also is the Altitude of the Sun or Stars reckoned, which is their height in Degrees above the Horizon.

Secondly, The other Horizon is called the Real or Rational Horizon, and is a Circle encom- passing the Earth exactly in the middle, and whose Poles are the Zenith and Nadir, viz. two Points in its Axis, each 90 Deg. distant from its Plane, (as the Poles of all Circles are) the one exactly over our Heads, and the other directly under our Feet. This is the Circle that th wooden Horizon on the Globe reprefents.

On which Broad Horizon several Circles are drawn, the innermost of which is the Num- ber of Degrees of the Twelve Signs of the Zodiack, viz. 30 to each Sign : for the ancient Astronomers observed the Sun in his (apparent) Annual Courfe, always to defcribe one and the' fame Line in the Heavens, and never to deviate from this Track or Path to the North or South, as all the other Planets did, more or less : and because they fonnd the Sun to fhift as it were backwards, thro' all the Parts of this Circle, so that in one whole Year's Courfe he would Rife, Culminate, and Set, with every Point of it •, they distinguished the fixed Stars that appeared, in or near this Circle, into 12 Conftellations or Divisions, which they called Signs, and denoted them with certain Characters; and because they are, 'molt of them ufually drawn in the form of Animals, they called this Circle by the Narne of Zo- diack, which signifies an Animal, and the very middle Line of it the Ecliptick ; and since every Circle is divided into 360 Degrees, a twelfth part of this Number will be 30, the Degrees in each Sign.

Next to this you have the Names of those Signs; next to this the Days of the Months, according to the Julian Account, or Old Style, with the Calendar ; and then another C#- lendar, according to the Foreign Account or New Style.

And. without these, is a Circle divided into thirty two equal Parts, which make the 32 Winds or Points of the Mariners Compass, with the Names annexed.

The Uses of this Circle in the Globe are,

1. To determine the Rifing and Setting of the Sun, Moon, or Stars, and to fhew the time of it, by help of the Hour-Circle and Index •, as (hall be fhewn hereafter.

2. To limit the Increafe and Decreafe of the Day and Night : for when the Sun rifes due East, and fets West, the Days are equal.

But when he Rifes and Sets to the North of the East and West, the Days are longer than the Nights ; and contrariwife, the Nights are longer than the Days, when the Sun Rifes and Sets to the Southwards of the East and West Points of the Horizon.

3. To. fhow the Sun's Amplitude, or the Amplitude of a Star ; and also on what Point of the Compass, it Rifes and Sets.

II. The next Circle, is the Meridian, which is reprefented by the brazen Frame or Circle, in which the Globe hangs and turns. This is divided into four Nineties or 360 Degrees, beginning at the Equinoctial.

This Circle is called the Meridian, because when the Sun comes to the South part of it, it is Meridies, Mid-day, or High noon; and then the Sun hath its greateft Altitude for that Day, which therefore is called the Meridian Altitude. The Plane of this Circle is perpen- dicular to the Horizon, and pafTeth thro' the South and North Parts thereof, thro' the Zenith and Nadir, and thro' the Poles of the World. In it, each way from the Equinoclial on the Celeftial Globe, is accounted the North or South Declination of the Sun or Stars ; and on the Terrefirial, the Latitude of a Place North or South, which is equal to the elevation or height of the Pole above the Horizon : Because the Distance from the Zenith to the Horizon, being the fame as that between the Equinoclial and the Poles, if from each you imagine the Di- ftance from the Pole to the Zenith to be taken away, the Latitude will remain equal to the, Pole's Altitude.

There are two Points of this Circle, each 90 Degrees distant from the Equinoctial, which are called the Poles of the World, the upper one the North Pole, and the under one the South Pole. A Diameter continued thro' both the Poles in either Globe and the Center, is called the Axis of the Earth or Heavens, on which they are supposed to turn about.

The Meridians are various, and change according to the Longitude of Places ; for as foon as ever a Man moves but one Degree, or but a Point to the East or West, he is under a New Meridian : But there is or mould be one fixed, which is called the first Me- ridian.

And this on some Globes, pafies thro' one of the Azores Iflands : but the French place the first' Meridian at Fero, one ot the Canary IQands.

The Poles of the Meridian are the East and West Points of the Horizon. On the Terrejtial Globe, are ufually drawn 24 Meridians, one thro' every 15 Degrees of the Equator, or every 15 Degrees of Longitude.

The Uses of the Meridian Circle are,

First, To fet the Globe to any particular Latitude, by a proper Elevation of the Pole above the Horizon of that Place. And, Secondly, To fhew the Sun or Stars Declination, right Afcenfion, and greatcft Altitude ; of which more hereafter.

III. The next great Circle, is the Equinoclial Circle, as it is called on the Celeftial, and the Equator, on the TerRestriai Globe. This is a great Circle whose Poles are the Poles of the World : it divides the Globe into two equal Parts or Hemifpheres, as to North and South ; it pafies thro' the East and West Points of the Horizon, and at the Meridian is always as much railed above the Horizon, as is the Complement of the Latitude of any particular Place. Whenever the Sun comes to this Circle, it makes equal Days and Nights all round the Globe, because it then Rifes due East, and Sets due West, which it doth at no other time of the Year. All Stars also which are under this Circle, or which have no Declination, do al- ways Rife due East, and Set full West.

All People living under this Circle (which by Navigators is called the Line) have their Days and Nights conftantly equal. And when the Sun is in the Equinoctial, he will be at Noon in their Zenith, or directly over their Pleads, and so their erect Bodies can eaft no Shadow.

From this Circle both ways, the Sun, or Stars Declination on the Celeftial, or Latitude of all Places on the Terreflrial Globe, is accounted on the Meridian : and such lefiTer Circles as run thro' each Degree of Latitude or Declination parallel to the Equinoctial, are called Pa- rallels of Latitude or Declination.

Through every 15 Degrees of this Equinoctial, the Hour-Circles are drawn at right An- gles to it on the Celeftial Globe, and all pass thro' the Poles of the World, dividing the Equi- noctial into 24 equal Parts.

And the Equator on the TerRestial Globe, is divided by the Meridians into 36 equal Parts ; which Meridians are equivalent to the Hour-Circles on the other Globe.

IV. The Zodiack is another great Circle of the Globe, dividing the Globe into two equal Parts (as do all great Circles) : When the Points of Aries and Libra are brought to the Ho- rizon, it wiii cut that and the Equinoctial obliquely, making with the former an Angle equal to 23 Degrees 30 Minutes, which is the Sun's greatcft Declination. This Circle is accounted by Astronomers as a Kind of broad one, and is like a Belt or Girdle: Through the Middle of it is drawn a Line called the Ecliptick, or Via Solis, the Way of the Sun ; because the Sun never deviates from ir, in it's annual Courfe.

This Circle is marked with the Characters of the Twelve Signs, and on it is found out the Sun's Place, which is under what Star or Degree of any of the Twelve Zodiacal Conjiellations, he appears to be in at Noon. By this are determined the four Quarters of the Year, accord- ing as t. ; Ecliptick is divided into four equal Parts ; and accordingly as the Sun goes on here, he has more or less Declination.

Also (torn this Circle the Latitude of the Planets and fixed Stars are accounted from the Ecliptick towards the Poles.

The Poles of this Circle are 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes distant from the Poles of the World, or of trie Equinoctial •, and by their Motion round the Poles of the World, are the Polar Circles defcribed.

V. If you imagine two great Circles both palling thro' the Poles of the World, and also one of them thro' the Equinoctial Points Aries and Libra, and the other thro' the Soljlitial Points, Cancer and Capricorn : Thefe are called the two Colures, the one the Equinoclial, and the other the Soljlitial Colure. Thefe. will divide the Ecliptick into four equal Parts, which are denominated according to the Points they pass thro', called the four Cardinal Points, and are the first Points of Aries, Libra, Cancer, and Capricorn.

Thefe are all the great Circles.

VI. If you suppose two Circles drawn parallel to the Equinoctial at 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes, reckoned on the Meridian, these are called the Tropicks, because the Sun appears, when in them, to turn backward from his former Courfe j the one, the Tropick of Cancer ; the other the Tropick of Capricorn, because they are under these Signs.

VII. If two other Circles are supposed to be drawn thro' 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes, reckoned in the Meridian from the Polar Points, these are called the Polar Circles : The Northern is the Arctick, and the Southern the Antarctick Circle, because opposite to the former.

Thefe are the four leffer Circles.

And these on the TerRestrial Globes, the Ancients supposed to divide the Earth into five Zones, viz. two Frigid, two Temperate, and the Torrid Zone.

Besides these ten Circles already defcribed, there are some other neceflary Circles to be known, which are barely imaginary, and only supposed to be drawn upon the Globe.

1. Meridians, or Hour-Circles, which are great Circles all meeting in the Poles of the World, and crofting the Equinoctial at right Angles j these are fupplied by the brazen Meridian Hour-Circle and Index.

2. Azimuths, or Vertical Circles, which likewise are great Circles of the Sphere, and meet in the Zenith and Nadir, as the Meridians and Hour-Circles do in the Poles ; these cut the Horizon at right Angles, and on these is reckoned the Sun's Altitude, when he is not in the Meridian. They are reprefented by the Quadrant of Altitude, by and by fpoken of, which being fixed at the Zenith, is moveable about the Globe thro' all the Points of the Compass.

3. There are also Circles of Longitude of the Stars and Planets, which are great Circles paf- fing thro' the Poles of the Ecliptick, and in that Line determining the Stars or Planets Place Or Longitude, reckoned from the first Point of Aries.

4. Almacanters, or Parallels of Altitude, are Circles having their Poles in the Zenith, and are always drawn parallel to the Horizon. Thefe are lefTer Circles of the Sphere, diminish- ing as they go further and further from the Horizon. In refpect of the Stars, there are also Circles fuppoied to be Parallels of Latitude, which are Parallels to the Ecliptick, and have their Poles the fame as that of the Ecliptick.

5. Parallels of Declination of the Sun or Stars, are lefTer Circles, whose Poles are the Poles of the World, and are all drawn parallel to the Equinoctial, either North or South j and these (when drawn on the Terrejlrial Globe) are called Parallels of Latitude.

VIII. There are belonging to Globes a Quadrant of Altitude, and Semi-Circle of Pofition. The first is a thin pliable Piece of Brass, whereon is graduated 90 Degrees anfwerable to those of the Equator, a fourth Part of which it reprefents •, with a Nut and Screw, to faften it to any part of the brazen Meridian as occafion requires. There is, or fliould be likewise, a Compass belonging to a Globe, that so it may be fet North and South.

The Semi-Circle of Pofition is a narrow Plate of Brass, infcribed with 180 Degrees, and anfwerable to juft half the Equator.

Laftly, The Brass Circle, faftened at right Angles on the brazen Meridian, and the Index put on the Axis, is called the Index and Hour-Circle.

SECTION II.

Having now defcribed the Circles of the Globes, I proceed to their Conjiruffion.

The Body of the Globe is compofed of an Axle-Tree, two Paper-Caps fewed together, a Composition of Plaifter laid over them, and last of all globical Papers or Gores (of which. more by and by), (luck or glewed on the Plaifter.

The Axle-Tree is a Piece of Wood which runs thro' the middle of the Globe, turned fome- times of an eaual Thicknefs, but oftner fmaller in the Middle than at the Ends ; where two Pieces of thick hardened Wire are ftruck in, which is the Axis, that appears without the Globe, on which it turns within the brazen Meridian.

The Paper-Caps inclofe this Axle-Tree, and are made in the following Manner. You must have a Ball of Wood turned round, about a Quarter of an Inch less in Diameter, than the Size you intend to make your Globe of, with two Pieces of Wire ftuck into it, diametri- cally opposite to each other, for Conveniency of turning in a Frame, which may be made of two Pieces of Stick fixed upright in a Board, with Notches on the Tops to lay the Wire in. Round this wooden Ball you must pafte wafte Paper, both brown and white, 'till you judge it to be of the Thicknefs of Pafteboard •, and before it be quite dry, cut it in the Middle, so that it may come ofT in two Hemifpheres : to prevent the Paper faom flicking, let the Ball at first making be thick painted, and every time before you pafte Paper on it, greafe or oil it a little.

The Holes at the Tops of the Caps, occafioned by the Axis on which the Ball turned, are very convenient for the Axis of the Globe to go thro' in covering of it. Then having faftened the Top of the Caps with small Nails to each end of the wooden Axle-Tree, few them clofe together in the Middle with ftrone Twine.

That the Caps may meet exactly, obferve two things: ift, That the Axle-tree be juft in the Diameter of the Ball. 2dly, That before you take the Caps off the Ball, you make Scores a-crofs the parting all round, about an Inch afunder, whereby to bore the Holes for fewino- them even together, and leave a Mark to direct how to join them again in the fame points': for Inftance, make a Crofs over any one of the Scores in the upper Cap, and an- other Crofs upon the fame Score in the under Cap ; and when you clofe them, bring the two Croffes together, by which means the Caps in fewing will come as clofe together as before they were parted. This Care must be taken, that there may be no Openings be- tween ; in which cafe, Paper must be crammed in to flop up the Gaps : but whether there be any Gaps or no, there must be Paper pafted all over it's fewing, to prevent any of the Plaster from falling in.

The Plaster is made with Glue, diflblved over the Fire in Water and Whiting mixed up thick, with some Hemp fhred small ; the Use of which is to bind the Plaster, and keep it from cracking (as Hair is put into Mortar for the fame End) : a Handful will ferve two or three Gallons of Stuff. There is no neceffity for mixing the whole over the Fire, except the Whitin^ runs into Lumps not eafily to be broken with the Hand.

For laying on this Plaster over the Caps in a globular Form, you must have a Steel Semi- Circle exactly half the Circumference you intend the Globe to have, fixed fiat-ways in a 1 level Table made for that purpofe, with a Notch at each end for the Axis (which must nicely fit it) to turn in, and two Buttons to cover it, to prevent the Axis from being forced out of the Notches, when the Globe is clogged with Plaster, and so requires some Violence to turn it.

Then fixing your Paper-Sphere within this Semi-Circle, lay Plaster on it with your Hjnds, turning the Globe eafiiy round, 'till it be covered so as to fill the Semi-Circle: But before it comes to touch the Semi-Circle in all it's Parts, and be equally fmooth all round, it wiil require a great many Layings on of the Plaster, letting it dry between every such Ap- plication.

The second or third time of laying on Stuff, it will begin to touch the Semi-Circle in fome parts, and to appear round ; the fourth time it will touch in more parts, and look rounder •, 'till at last it will touch in all parts, and become perfectly round and fmooth, like a Ball of polifhed Marble.

The next thing to be done is to poife the Globe ; for it generally happens, by reason of the Plaster lying thicker in one place than in another, that some iide weighs ftili down- wards. To remedy this, a Hole must be cut in that part, and a convenient Quantity of Shot put in, in a Bag, to bring it to a due Balance with the Rest •, after which the Place must be ftopped up with a Cork, and covered again •vith Piafter. The Bag tnat holds the Shot may be glewed or fewed to the Cap within, or faftened to the Cork : fometimes after one part is balanced, the Weight will incline to another •, in which cafe the fame Remedy must be applied again, as often as there will be neceffity.

This done, by help of another Semi-Circle, divided into 18 equal Parts, draw the Equa- tor and Parallels of Latitude, placing a Black-lead Pencil at the Graduation, and turning the Globe againfc the Point of it to make a Line. Then divide the Equator with a Pair of Compasses into so m&lt;*ny Parts as there are globical Papers or Gores to lay on, and draw Lines thro' each from Pole to Pole by the Side of the Semi-Circle. Within each of these Spaces so marked out, you have only to lay one of the Gores, which (being cut out so ex- act, as neither to lap over, nor leave a Vacancy between them) by the i\ffiftancc of the Lines drawn upon the Plaster, may be fitted, so as to fall in with each other with the greateft Exactnefs. In applying the Gores, you may use a good binding Pafte, but Mouth Glue is better.

SECTION III.

ConJlruBion of the Circles of the Globe on the Globical Papers or Gores.

As 7 is to 22, So is the Diameter of a Globe to the Circumference of any one of it's greateft Circles. The Diameter of the Globe is ufually given, from whence it often happens that the Circumference confifts of odd Numbers and Parts. Whereas if the Circumference was given in even Numbers, as Inches, it might more eafily be divided into Parts. For Ex- ample, if the Circumference was 36 Inches, each 10 Degrees of Longitude on the Equator will be one Inch •, if the Circumference be 54, each 10 Degrees will be one Inch and a half; if 72, every 10 Degrees of Longitude will be two Inches.

The Diameter of a Globe being given, suppose 24 Inches, to find the Circumference, fay, As 7 is to 22, So is 24 to 75.43 Inches, the Length of the Circumference fought.

The Length of each Gore, from the North Pole to the South Pole, will be exactly half the Circumference of the Globe, which is 37.71 Inches, and the Length from the Equator to either Pole will be ^, viz. 18.86 Inches.

If each of the Globical Papers contain in their greateft Breadth 30 Degrees of the Equa- tor, 12 of them will cover the Globe, and by dividing the Circumference 75.43 by 12, the Quotient will give 6.28 Inches for the Breadth of the Gore.

If 18 of the Gores go to cover the Globe, the Breadth of each will be 20 Degrees of the Equator, or 4.19 Inches.

If 24, each will contain 15 Degrees of the Equator, or 3.14 Inches of the Circum- ference:

If 36, each Paper will contain 10 Degrees of the Circumference, or 2.09 Inches.

If the Globe be so large as to take up 360 Papers, that is, one to every Degree of Longi- tude, then will the Breadth of each Gore be 23 parts of an Inch.

Again, If the Circumference of a Globe be given, suppose 72 Inches, divide it by 2 (for the Length of the Gores from Pole to Pole) and the Quotient will be 36 Inches; and con- fequently half that Length, or the Distance from the Equator to either Pole, will be 18 Inches : as the Distance from N. to S. taken from a supposed Scale of Inches, is 36 Inches, or one half of the Circumference of the Globe ; and the Distance from C to N or S, 18 Inches, or ' of the Circumference.

If each Gore contains 30 Degrees of the Equator in Breadth, or T V of the Circumfe- rence, it will take up 6 Inches thereof as IK.

If 18 of the Gores go to cover a Globe of the aforsaid Circumference, each will con- tain 20 Degrees in Longitude of the Equator, or 4 Inches, as L M.

If your Papers be r ' T of the Circumference, each will contain 15 Degrees of the Equator, or or 3 Inches, as ab.

If they be — °f tne Circumference, each will contain 10 Degrees of the Equator, or 2 Inches, as c d.

If there be 72 Papers for covering the Globe, each will contain 5 Degrees of the Equator, or 1 Inch, that is 7 \ of the Circumference.

If, lastiy, the Globe requires 360 Papers, each will contain 1 Degree, or ' of an Inch.

This being premifed, I now proceed to give the Manner of drawing the Circles of the Globes upon the aforsaid Gores.

Fig. 7. Draw the Diameter W E, and crofs it with another at right Angles to it, as N S. From the Scale of Inches fet off from C to N, and to S, (the North and South Poles) 18 Inches or 4 of the Circumference, which divide into 9 equal parts, each of which likewise fub- divide into 10 more (for the 90 Degrees of North and South Latitude). Upon C, as a Cen- ter, defcribe the Circle NE, S W, and divide each Quadrant into 90 Degrees, numbering each 10th Degree with Figures from the Equator towards the Poles, as 10, 20, 30, &c. Thus the three Points are found, thro' which the parallel Circles to the Equator rauft be drawn, viz. two of them are in the Quadrants N E, N W. and S E, S W, and the third is in the Diameter NS.

To find the Centers of any of the said Parallels, suppose of the Parallel of 60 Degree's, fet one Foot of your CompafTes in the Point 6c, or F, of the Quadrant NE, and extend the other to the Point 60, or D, in the Diameter NS ; then defcribe the little Arcs A, B, and removing the Foot of your CompafTes to the Point D, defcribe two other Arcs, cutting those before defcribed, and thro' the Points of Interferon draw a right Line, which will cut the Diameter C N, produced in the Point G, the Center of the 60th Parallel. Having thus found the Centers of all the Parallels, and drawn them in the Northern Hemifphere, transfer the central Points in the Line C N continued, into the Line C S continued also, and draw the Parallels of the Southern Flemifphere. Note, That whether the polar Papers extend to the 80th or 70th Parallel, those Circles in the meridional Papers, or those that encompass the Body of the Globe, rauft be defcribed as is here ordered ; but in the polar Papers the Pole mult be the Center, as you fee in the Figure, where one Point of the Com- pafTes being fet in the South Pole S, and the other extended to the 80th or 70th Degree of Latitude in the Diameter, ftrikes those Parallels in the polar Papers. See more concerning the polar Papers hereafter.

Then because the polar Circles and Tropicks are but Parallels 23 Dcg. 30 Min. distant from the Poles and Equator -, at those Distances defcribe double Lines, reprefenting such Circles, to distinguish them from other Parallels.

To draw the Meridians. Having chosen one of the Proportions beforementioned for the Breadth of each Paper on the Equator, suppose r \ of the Equator, which is the common Proportion in globical Pa- pers, and the greatcft Breadth that can be allowed them, let the Globe be of what Magni- tude foever : then because r ' r of the Equator contains 30 Degrees, which in the Gores for a Globe of 72 Inches Circumferences, are fix Inches in Breadth •, from a Scale or Inches take three Inches between your CompafTes, and lay them olfon the Diameter W C E, from C to K, and from C to I, the Length from I to K being fix Inches, or 3 Degrees of the Equator, into which it must be divided, and numbered at each 5th or 10th Degree, with the Degrees of Longitude.

Now because a fingle Degree cannot be well divided into Parts in so small a Projection, and feeing that any Number of Degrees of Longitude in any Parallel has the fame Propor- tion to one Degree in that Parallel, as the fame Number of Degrees of Longitude under the Equator has to one Degree of Longitude j therefore take 15 Degrees of the Equator, viz- IC or IK, in your CompafTes, and having divided it feparately, as you would a fin- ale Degree, into 60 equal Parts, look irt the following Table what Proportion a Degree (or 15 Degrees) in each 5th or 10th Parallel of Latitude* hath to a Degree (or 15 Degrees) on the Equator. For example, in the first Column of the Table towards the Left-Hand, are the Degrees of Latitude; over against the 10th Degree, I find 59 Miles in the second Column, and 00 Minutes, or Fractions of a Mile, in the third Column, which signifies that a Decree (or 15 Degrees) in the 10th Parallel of Latitude, contains but 59 Milts 00 Mi- nutcs^of a Degree (or 15 Degrees of the Equator) which Length I take from the Scale I C or CK between my Compaiies, and fet off on each side the Meridian, or Diameter N S, on the 10th Parallel.

A^ain, in the Parallel of 20 Degrees, I find a Degree to contain 56 Miles 24 Minutes, or parts of a Mile, of a Degree in the Equator, and transfer that Length from the aforsaid Scale upon the 20th Parallel ; the like is to be underftood of all the Rest, and those Points being found and joined, will form the Meridians on the Gores. The fame Directions must be followed in all other Proportions for the Breadth cf the Gores; in chusing of which, ob- ferve, that as it is manifest from the Figure of the Globe, that a Paper so large as .'- of the Circumference of the Globe, cannot lie upon its Convexity, without crumbling, lapping over, or tearing, in the Application; therefore it will be better to use some leffer Propor- tion, as L M, ab, or cd: for note, the narrower they are, the more exactly they will fit jthe Globe. Note alio, in drawing the Parallels from 10 to 30 Degrees of Latitude, right Lines will do well enough.

A TABLE /hewing in what Proportion the Degrees of Longitude decreafe

in the Parallels of Latitude.

T#£ exatl Geometrical IV ay of drawing the Parallels and Meridians on the Gores-

Because in the Method before laid down, the true Centers of the Parallels are not exact- Plate 1! ly in those Points found as there directed ; nor the Points in them the Points by which the Fig 1. Meridians must pass: therefore I think it proper here to exhibit the Geometrical Manner of drawing them truly.

Suppose SB to be the Semidiameter of the Globe, with which defcribe the Quadrant BI, and continue out the Semidiameter S I, both ways. Make S A equal to 4 of the Circum- ference ; the Point A of which, will be the Pole of the Gore. Then divide the Quadrant BI into 90 equal Parts or Degrees, to every of which draw the Tangents i 80, k 70, I 6o t m go, &c. until they meet the Radius SI continued. Again, having divided the Line AS (equal to ; of the Circumference of the Globe) into 90 equal Parts, (I have only divided it into 9) and numbred them as per Figure; take the Length of the Tangent i 80 between your Compasses, and fetting one Foot in the Point 80 of the Line AS, the other will fall upon the Point a in the said Line continued out beyond A, which will be the Center of the 80th Parallel parting thro' the Point 80 in the Line A S.

Moreover, to find the Center of the 70th Parallel, take the Tangent k 70 between your Compasses, and fetting one Foot in the Point 70 of the Line A S, the other will fall on the Point b in the Line AS continued, which will be the Center of" the 70th Parallel, passing thro' the Point 80 in the Line AS.

In like manner, to find the Center of the 60th Parallel, take the Tangent / 60 between your Compacts, and fet it off from the Point 60 in the Line A S, and you will have the Center c for the 60th Parallel, passing thro' the Point 60. Proceed thus for finding the Cen- ters d, e t /, g, &V. of the Parallels 50, 40, 30, 20, &c. about each of which Centers refpec- tive Arcs being drawn, the Parallels will be had.

The Reason of this Operation for finding the Centers of the Parallels, is this ; If a Sphere or Globe hath revolved upon a Plane, in such manner that every Point of the Peri- phery of some leffer Circle of it, has touched the said Plane, and the Point which in the beginning of the Motion was contiguous to the Plane, became to be contiguous to it again ; then the Points on the Plane, that were contiguous to the Points of the Periphery of the aforsaid leffer Circle, will be in the Circumference of a Circle, whose Center will be the Vertex of a right Cone, lying on the aforsaid Plane, the ifafe of which will be the said Circle j and confequently the Vertex will be determined in the Plane, by continuing a right Line raifed on the Circle's Center perpendicularly 'till it cuts the aforsaid Plane.

How to draw the Meridians.

Having drawn the Sines 10^, 205-, 30 r, 40 s, &c. divide the Radius BS into 360 equal Parts, or make a Diagonal Scale of that Length, whereby 360 may be taken off. Then having affumed SC for half the Breadth of the Gore, suppose ,' T of the Circumfe- rence of the Equator, take S x (the Sine Complement of 80 Deg.) between your Com paries, and applying this Extent on the Radius B S, or the Diagonal Scale, fee how many of those Parts that the Diameter is divided into, that Extent takes up. Then take ~ v of those Parts, and with the Quotient as so many Degrees make the Arc 10 L off, which will give the Point I. in the Parallel of 10 Degrees, thro' which the Meridian must pass.

Again, take S w between your Compasses, and fee how many of the Parts that the Radius B S is divided into, it contains ; then take T ' T of those Parts, and with the Quotient, as fo many Degrees, make the Arc 20 M off, which will give another Point M, thro' which the lame Meridian muff pass in the 20th Parallel.

In like manner, to find the Point N in the Parallel of 30 Degrees, thro' which the Meri- dian must pass, take S u (the Sine Complement of 60 Degrees) in your Compasses, and fee how many of the Parts that the Radius BS is divided into, it contains ; then taking - + -\. of those Parts, with the Quotient as so many Degrees, make the Arc 30 N off.

Proceeding in this manner, you may find other Points in the other Parallels, thro' which the Meridian mud pass. Which Points being afterwards joined, the quarter of the Meri- dian ANC will be drawn; and therefore one quarter of the Gore •, and confequently the other three Quarters of the Gore will be eafily limited.

Method of ordering the Circumsolar Papers. The Circumpolar Papers were formerly not cut out by themfelves, 'till Artifts found it hard to make the Poles, or Points of the Gores, fall nicely in the North and South Poles ; whence, to help that Inconveniency, they made Circular Papers ferve to cover the Superficies of thq Globe between the Polar Circles, the Parallels on which Papers are all Concentric Circles, and the Meridians Right Lines: yet finding dill so big Papers not to fit the Globe's Con- vexity, but wrinkle about the edges, they have extended them from the Poles only to the Parallels of 70 Degrees. But neither will it do yet, bccaule the Longitude decreafes dif- proportionally, the further off the Poles. If the Diameter of a Polar Paper extends to in Degrees from the Pole only, that Paper will lie flat upon the Globe's Convexity, without any fenfible dretching or contracting : But if it extend to or beyond the 70th Parallel, you mud take another Courfe.

with an extent to the 70th Parallel, defcribe a Circle, which from the Points G or F, divide into 12 equal Parts-, or, which is the fame, continue every other Meridian in the Parallel 80 to the Parallel 70, and by the aforementioned Table fet off on each Side these 12 Meridians, the true Longitude of each 10 Degrees in the Parallel of 80 •, or, which will fave that trouble, transfer the Didance from C to G, or from G to D upon the Pa- rallel of 70 Deg. in the Polar Paper, for that is the extent of 10 Degrees in that Parallel ; and, as is manifed from the Figure, there will lie between each twelfth part of the Circum- ference FG, a narrow flip of Paper which mud be cut out, and then the Paper being laid upon the Globe, the Parts will naturally clofe : whereas, for want of this Care taken, we commonly fee the Polar Papers wrap over and wrinkle ; besides, the Points of the Meridians on the Polar Papers feldom meet those of the Meridians of the Gores, except now and then by chance.

From this one rough Draught you may transfer the red of the Gores that are to make up the Surface of the Globe ; by which the trouble of projecting a New Scheme for every

Gore will be avoided. Obferve to do it with great care, For a small Error will, when the Gores are all joined, appear very fenfible. Then because the Gores in all make 12, you mav divide your Proje&ions upon three Sheets of large Paper, allowing four Gores to each Sheet

Draw an East and West Diameter thro' every Sheet, in each of which fet off the Distance Fi from I to K, of Fig. 7. Plate 17. with your Compafles four times, without fliiftino- the Points. In the middle of each eRest Perpendiculars, and transfer 70 Degrees thereon (al- lowing the Polar Papers to include 20 Degrees from the Poles) Northwards and South- wards from the Center, which is the Interferon of the Equator with theftraight Meridians or Perpendiculars, for Northern and Southern Latitude.

From the aforsaid Semi-gore, take the Distance between the Point of each 10th Parallel in the Perpendiculars, and in the Meridians AC, B D, and in the fair Draught defcribe Arcs to the Right and Left, upon the Points in the Perpendiculars.

Then placing one foot of your Compafles in the Point A or B, extend the other to the Point of the Meridians and Parallels Interferon ; and as you go alone-, transfer the Di- ftances upon the Copies from the correfpondent Points of the Equator into the Arcs, and the Places where they cut will be the Points thro' which the Meridians and Parallels mull be drawn. And that Meridian, among all the Papers which is pitched upon for the first, let be divided equally from the Equator to G, and then in the Polar Papers to the Poles, into De- grees or Minutes, numbering each 10th or 5th Degree, with the Degrees of Latitude, mind- ing to draw three Lines to diftinguilh it from other Meridians. The fame mull be observed in defcribing the Ecliptick or Equator; on which last every 5th or 10th Degree, 'till you come to 180 Degrees, must be figured Eastward and Westward from the first Meridian.

When all the Papers are finifhed so far as relates to the Meridians and Parallels, you must next draw the Ecliptick •, and because that Circle interfe&s the Meridians in such and such Parallels of Declination, and the Meridians cut the Equator in the Degrees of Right Afcenfion •, therefore by help of a Table of the Declination of those Points of the Ecliptick that cut the Meridian, and the Right Afcenfion of the fame Points, find the Declination over-agamft the Right Afcenfion, which fhews thro' what parts of the Meridians the Ecliptick Arcs must pass ; and draw Right Lines thro' the Points of Interferon, which Lines will form the Ecliptick on the Globe;

A TABLE of Right Afcenfion and Declination of every 15 Degrees of the Signs.

Seek the Right Afcenfion as Longitude, and the Declination as Latitude, and where thev interlt-ct is the refpecYive Point of the Ecliptick.

Proceed next to infert the Stars on the Gores for the Celeftial Globe, and Places on those for the lerRestnal Globe, by help of most approved Aftronomical and Geographical Tables and Maps according to their refpedive Longitude and Latitude, which may eafily be affected by finding the Meridian and Parallel of the Star or Place; and the Point where they interfeft each other, will be the exacl Situation thereof.

The Rhumb Lines (which always make the fame Angles with the Parallels they are dawn thro; may be inlcribed by Wrights Card, or Loxodromick Tables, found in some Books of iNavigation, as those in Newhoufe. Trade Winds are beft defcribed from Dr Halley in the fbiiophical Tranfaclions : the Conftellations may be drawn by a Celeftial Globe.

0Ur Projettures of the Heaven and Earth being finifhed, you may either apply them to a particular Pair of Globes, or have them engraved in Copper- Plates.

BEfore I lay down the Uses of the Globe, it will be proper to exhibit the following Definitions, neceflary to be known in order to underftand their Uses.

Definition I. The Latitude of any Place, is an Arc of the Meridian of that Place, intercepted between the Zenith and the Equator ; and this is the fame as an Arc of the Meridian inter- cepted between the Pole and the Horizon •, and therefore the Latitude of any Place is often cxpRested by the Pole's Height, or Elevation of the Pole : the Reason of which is, that from the Equator to the Pole, there always being the Distance of 90 Degrees, and from the Ze- nith to the Horizon the fame Number, and each of these 90 containing within it the Di- flance between the Zenith and the Pole ; that Distance therefore being taken away from both, must leave the Distance from the Zenith to the Equator equal to the Distance between the Pole and the Horizon, or the Elevation of the Pole above the Horizon.

Definition II. Latitude of a Star or Planet, is an Arc of a great Circle reckoned on the Quadrant of Altitude, laid through the Star and Pole of the Ecliptick, from the Ecliptick towards its Pole.

Definition III. Longitude of a Place is an Arc of the Equator intercepted between the Meridian •, or it is more properly the Difference, either East or West, between the Meridians of any two Places, accounted on the Equator.

Definition IV. Longitude of a Star, is an Arc of the Ecliptick, accounted from the be- ginning of Aries to the Place where the Star's Circle of Longitude croffeth the Ecliptick ; fo that it is much the lame as the Star's Place in the Ecliptick, accounted from the beginning of Aries.

Definition V. Amplitude of the Sun or of a Star, is an Arc of the Horizon intercepted be- tween the true East or West Points of it, and that Point upon which the Sun or Star rifes or fets.

Definition VI. Right Afcenfion of the Sun, or of a Star, is that part of the Equinoctial reckoned from the beginining of Aries, which rifeth or fetteth with the Sun or Star in a Right Sphere : but in an Oblique Sphere it is that part of a Degree of the Equinoctial, which comes to the Meridian with it, (as before) reckoned from the beginning of Aries.

Definition VII. A right or direct Sphere, is when the Poles are in the Horizon, and the Equator in the Zenith: the Confequence of being under such a Pofition of the Heavens as this (which is the cafe of those who live directly under the Line) is, that the Inhabitants have no Latitude nor Elevation of the Pole ; they can nearly fee both the Poles of the World. All the Stars in the Heaven do once in twenty-four Hours rife, culminate, and fet with them ; the Sun always rifes and dtfeends at Right Angles with the Horizon, which is the Reason they have always equal Days and Nights, because the Horizon doth exactly bifect the Circle of the Sun's Diurnal Revolution.

Definition VIII. A Parallel Sphere, is where the Poles are in the Zenith and Nadir, and the Equinoctial in the Horizon •, which is the Cafe of such Perfons, if any such there be, who live directly under the North or South Poles.

And the Confequence of such a Pofition are, that the Parallels of the Sun's Declination will alio be Parallels of his Altitude, or Almacanters to them. The Inhabitants can fee only such Stars as are on their side the Equinoctial; and they must have fix Months Day, and fix Months continual Night every Year •, and the Sun can never be higher with them than 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes, which is not so high as it is with us on February the 10th.

Definition IK. An oblique Sphere, is where the Pole is elevated to any Number of De- grees less than 90 : and confequently the Axis of the Globe can never be at Right Angles to, nor in the Horizon -, and the Equator and Parallels of Declination, will all cut the Ho- rizon obliquely, from whence it takes its Name.

Oblique Afcenfion of the Sun or Stars, is that Part or Degree of the Equinoctial reckoned from the beginning of Aries, which rifes and fets with them in an oblique Sphere.

Afcenfional Difference, is the Difference between the right and oblique Afcenfion, when the leffer is fubftracted from the greater.

On the Terreflrial Globe. Definition X. A Space upon the Surface of the Earth, reckoned between two Parallels to the Equator, wherein the Increafe of the longeft Day is a quarter of an Hour, is by fome Writei s called a Parallel.

Definition XI. And the Space contained between two such Parallels, is called a Climate: Thefe Climates begin at the Equator ; and when we go North or South, till the Day becomes half an Hour longer than it was before, they fay we are come into the first Climate ; when the Days are an Hour longer than they are under the Equator, we are come to the Second Climate, &c these Climates are counted in Number 24, reckoned each way from the Poles. " The Inhabitants of the Earth are divided into three forts, as to the falling of their

Shadows.

Definition XII. Amphifcii, who are those which inhabit the Torrid Zone, or live between the Equator and Tropicks, and confequently have the Sun twice a Year in their Zenith ; at which time they are Afcii^ i. e. have no Shadows, the Sun being vertical to them : these have their Shadows call to the Southward, when the Sun is in the Northern Signs, and to the Northward when the Sun is in the Southern Signs reckoned in refpect of them.

Definition Xill. Heterofcii, who are those whose Shadows fall but one way, as is the Cafe of all such as live between the Tropicks and Polar Circles ; for their Shadows at Noon are always to the Northward in North Latitude, and to the Southward in South La-

Definition XIV. Peri frit, are such Perfons that inhabit those Places of the Earth that lie between the Polar Circles andthe Poles, and therefore have their Shadows falling all manner of ways, because the Sun at some time of the Year goes clear round about them. The Inhabitants of the Earth, in refpect to one another, are alio divided into three Sorts.

Periceceiy who are such as inhabiting the lame Parallel (not a great Circle), are yet directly opposite to one another, the one being East or West from the other exactly 180 Degrees, which is their Difference of Longitude. Now these have the fame Latitude and Length of Days and Nights, but exactly at contrary Times ; for when the Sun rifeth to one, it fets to the other.

Antceci, who are Inhabitants of such Places, as being under a Semi-circle of the fame Meridian, do lie at equal Distance from the Equator, one towards the North, and the other towards the South. Now these have the fame Degree of Latitude, but towards contrary Parts, the one North and the other South ; and therefore must have the Seafons of the Year directly at contrary Times one to the other.

Antipodes, who are such as dwell under the fame Meridian, but in two opposite and equi- distant Parallels, and in the two opposite Points of those two Parallels •, so that they go Feet against Feet, and are distant from each other an intire Diameter of the Earth, or 180 Degrees of a great Circle. Thefe have the fame Degree of Latitude, but the one South, the other North, and accounted from the Equator a quite contrary way ; and therefore these will have all things, as Day and Night, Summer and Winter, directly contrary to one another.

U S E I. To find the Latitude of any Place.

Bring the Place to the Brass Meridian, and the Degrees of that Circle, intercepted between the Place and the Equinoctial, are the Latitude of that Place either North or South.

Then to fit the Globe so that the wooden Horizon fhali reprefent the Horizon of that Place, elevate the Pole as many Degrees above the wooden Horizon, as are contain'd in the Latitude of that Place, and it is done •, for then will that Place be in the Zenith.

If after this you rectify the Globe to any particular time, you may by the Index know the time of Sun-rifing and Setting with the Inhabitants of that Place, and confequently the prefent Length of their Day and Night, £sfV.

USE II. To find the Longitude of a Place.

Bring the Places severally to the Brass Meridian, and then the Number of Degrees of the Equinoctial, which are between the Meridians of each Place, are their Difference of Longitude either East or West.

But if you reckon it from any Place where a first Meridian is supposed to be placed, you must bring the first Meridian to the Brazen one on the Globe ; and then turn the Globe about 'till the other Place comes thither also : reckon the Number of Degrees of the Equi- noctial intercepted between the first Meridian, and the proper one of the Place, and that is the Longitude of that Place, either East or West.

USE III. To find what Places of the Earth the Sun is Vertical to, at any time affigned.

Bring the Sun's Place found in the Ecliptick on the TerRestrial Globe to the brazen Meri- dian, and note what Degree of the Meridian it cuts ; then by turning the Globe round about, you will fee what Places of the Earth are in that Parallel of Declination (for they will all come fuccefiively to that Degree of the brazen Meridian) ; and those are the Places and Parts of the Earth to which the Sun will be Vertical that Day, whose Inhabitants will then be Afcii ; that is, their erect Bodies at Noon will eaft no Shadow.

USE IV. To find the Sun's place in the Ecliptick in any given Day of the Month, by means of the Circle of Signs on the wooden Horizon. Seek the Day of the Month upon the Horizon, obferving the Difference between the Julian and Gregorian Calendars ; and then against the laid Day you will find, in the Circle of Signs, the Sign and Degree the Sun is in the said Day. This being done, find the fame Sign and Degree upon the Ecliptick on the Superficies of the Globe, and the Sun's place will be had. Note, If the Sun's place be required more exactly, you must confult an Ephe- meris for the given Year, or else calculate it from Aftronomical Tables.

U S E V. The Sun's Place for any Day being given, to find his Declination. Bring the Sun's Place for that Day to the Meridian, and then the Degrees of the Meri- dian, reckoned from the Equinoctial either North or South to the said Place, fliew the Sun's Declination for that Day at Noon, either North or South, according to the time of the Year, viz. from March the 10th to September the 12th, North ; and from thence to March again, South.

USE VI. To find the Sun's Amplitude either Rijing or Setting. Having rectified the Globe to the Latitude of the Place, that is, moved the brazen Me- ridian 'till the Degree of the Latitude thereon be cut by the Plane of the wooden Horizon, bring the Sun's Place to the said Horizon either on the Eafb or West side, and the Degrees of the Horizon, reckoned from the East Point, either North or South, give the Amplitude fought, and at the fame time you have in the Circle of Rhumbs the Point that the Sun rifes or fets upon.

USE VII. To find the Sun's Right Afcenfion.

Bring the Sun's Place to the brazen Meridian, and the Degrees intercepted between the beginning of Aries, and that Degree of the Equinoctial which comes to the Meridian with the Sun, is the Right Afcenfion ; which if you would have in time, you must reckon every 15 Degrees for one Hour, and every Degree four Minutes.

Note, The Reason of bringing the Sun's place to the Meridian in this Use, is to fave the trouble of putting the Globe into the Pofition of a Right Sphere : for properly Right Afcenfion is that Degree of the Equinoctial, which rifes with the Sun in a Right Sphere. But since the Equator is always at Right Angles to the Meridian, if you bring the Sun's place thither, it must in the Equinoctial cut his Right Afcenfion.

USE VIII. To find the Sun's Oblique Afcenfion. Having rectified the Globe to the Latitude, bring the Sun's Place to the East-side of the Horizon, and the Number of Degrees intercepted between that Degree of the Equinoctial, which is now come to the Horizon and the beginning of Aries, is the Oblique Afcenfion. Now the leffer of these two Afcenfions being taken from the greater, the Remainder is the afcenfional Difference •, which therefore is the Difference in Degrees between the Right or Oblique Afcenfion, or the Space between the Sun's Rifing or Setting, and the Hour of fix. Wherefore the afcenfional Difference being converted into Time, will give the time of the Sun's Rifing and Setting before or after fix.

USE IX. To find the time of the Sun's Rifing or Setting in any given Latitude. Having first brought his Place to the Meridian, and the Hour-Index to twelve at Noon, bring his Place afterwards to the Horizon, either on the East or West-side thereof ; then the Hour Index will either fhew the time of his Rifing and Setting accordingly. Now the time of the Sun's Setting being doubled, gives the Length of the Day ; and the time of his Ri- fing doubled, gives the Length of the Night.

USE X. The find the Sun's Meridian Altitude, or Depreffion at Midnight, in any given Latitude.

Bring his Place to the Meridian above the Horizon, for his Noon Altitude, which will fhew the Degrees thereof, reckoning from the Horizon ; and to find his midnight Depreffion below the North Point of the Horizon, the Point in the Ecliptick opposite to the Sun's prefent Place, must be brought to the South part of the Meridian above the Horizon, and the Degrees there intercepted between that Point and the Horizon, are his midnight Depreffion.

USE XI. To find the Sun's Altitude at any time of the Day given. Rectify the Globe, that is, bring the Sun's Place to the Meridian, and fct the Hour- Index to twelve, and raife the Pole to the Latitude of the Place above the Horizon. This being done, fit the Quadrant of Altitude, that is, fcrew the Quadrant of Altitude to the Zenith, or in our Latitude fcrew it so that the divided Edge cuts 51 Deg. 32 Min. otl the Meridian reckoned from the Equinoctial. Then turn the Globe about 'till the Index (hews the given Time, and ftay the Globe there; after which, bring the Quadrant of Alti- tude to cut the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, and then that Place or Degree of the Ecliptick will fhew the Sun's Altitude on the Quadrant of Altitude.

USE XII. To find the Sun's Altitude, and at what Hour he is due East or West. Rectify the Globe, and fit the Quadrant of Altitude. Then bring the Quadrant to cut the true East Point, and turn the Globe about 'till the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick cuts the divided Edge of the Quadrant of Altitude ; for then that Place will fhew the Altitude* and the Index the Hour.

USE XIII. The Sun's Azimuth, or when he is on any Point of the Compass being given j to find his Altitude and the Hour of the Day. Set the Quadrant of Altitude to the Azimuth given, and turn the Globe about 'till his place in the Ecliptick touches the divided Edge of the Quadrant •, so shall that Place give the Altitude on the Quadrant, and the Hour-Index the Time of the Day.

USE XIV. To find the Declination, and the Right Afcenfion of any Star. Bring the Star to the brazen Meridian, and then the Degrees intercepted between the Equinoctial and the Point of the Meridian cut by the Star, gives its Declinations. And the Meridian cuts, and fhews its Right Afcenfion on the Equinoctial, reckoning from the beginning of Aries.

USE XV. To find the Longitude and Latitude of any Star. Bring the Soliftitial Colure to the brazen Meridian, and there fix the Globe ; then will the Pole of the Ecliptick be juft under 23 Deg. 30 Min. reckoning from the Pole above the North Point of the Horizon, and upon the fame Meridian •, there fcrew the Quadrant of Altitude, and then bring its graduated Edge to the Star affigned, and there ftay it : so will the Star cut its proper Latitude on the Quadrant, reckoned from the Ecliptick ; and the Quadrant will cut the Ecliptick in the Star's Longitude, or its Distance from the first Point of Aries.

USE XVI. To find the time of any Star's rifing, fetting, or culminating, that is, being on the Meridian.

Rectify the Globe, and Hour-Index, and bring the Star to the East or West part of the Horizon, or to the brazen Meridian, and the Index will fhew accordingly the Time of the Star's rifing, fetting, or culminating, or of its being on the Meridian.

USE XVII. To know, at any time affigned, what Stars are rifing or fetting, which are on the Meridian, and how high they are above the Horizon ; on what Azimuth or Point of the Compass they are ; by which means the real Stars in the Heaven may eafily be known by their proper Names, and rightly distinguished from one another.

Rectify the Globe, and fit the Quadrant of Altitude, and fet the Globe, by means of the Compass, due North and South •, then turn the Globe and Hour-Index to the Hour of the Night affigned ; so will the Globe, thus fixed, reprefent the Face or Appearance of the Heavens for that time: whereby you may readily fee what Stars are in or near the Hori- zon ; what are on or near the Meridian ; which are to the North, or which to the South, &c. and the Quadrant of Altitude being laid over any particular Star, will fhew its Al- titude and Azimuth, or on what Point of the Compass it is, whereby any Star may eafily be known ; efpecially if you have a Quadrant to take the Altitude of any real Star supposed to be known by the Globe, to fee whether it agrees with that Star which is its Reprefen- tative on the Globe or not.

USE XVIII. The Sun's Place given, as also a Star's Altitude, to find the Hour of the Night. Rectify the Globe, and fit the Quadrant of Altitude ; then move the Globe backwards or forwards, till the Quadrant cuts the Star in its given Altitude : for then the Hour-Index will frew the Hour of the Night. And thus may the Hour of the Night be known by a Star's Azimuth, or its Azimuth by its Altitude.

USE XIX. To find the Distance between any two Stars. If the Stars lie both under the fame Meridian, bring them to the brazen Meridian, and the Degrees of the said Meridian comprehended between them, are their Distance.

If they are both in the Equinoctial, or have both the fame Declination, that is, are both in the fame Paraiiei, then bring them one after another to the brazen Meridian, and the De- grees of tiie Equinoctial intercepted between them, when thus brought to the Meridian fe- verally, are their Distance.

If the Stars are neither under the fame Meridian or Parallel, then either lay the Quadrant of Altitude from one to the other (if it will reach), and that will fhew the Distance between them in Degrees ; or eife take the Distance with CompafTes, and apply that to the Equi- noctial, or to the Meridian.

This Method of Proceeding will also fhew the Distance of any two Places on the Terre- ftrial Globe in Degrees. Wherefore to find how far any Place on the Globe is from another, you need only take the Distance between them on the Globe with a Pair of CompafTes, and applying the CompafTes to the Equator at the Beginning of Aries, or at the first Meridian, you will there find the Degrees of their Distance, which multiplied by 70 (or 6y T \&gt; Englijh Miles), and that will be their Distance in Miles.

SECTION I.

Of the Ptolemaick Sphere.

Fig. 3. PTT^ H E third Figure of Plate 18, reprefents a Ptolemaick Armillary Sphere, made of

Brass, or Wood, confiding of the fame Circles that have been defcribed in Chapter I. aforegoing, and having a round Ball fixed in the Middle thereof, upon the Axis of the World, reprefenting the Earth. Upon the Surface of this Ball are drawn Meridians, Pa- rallels, &c. as likewise as many Kingdoms, Countries, Seas, &c. with their Names, as can conveniently be depicted thereon. This Sphere revolves about the said Axis, between the Meridian, and by this means not only fhews the Sun's diurnal and annual Courfe, &c. about the Earth, according to the Ptolemaick Hypothefis, which supposes the Earth to be at Rest, and the Sun to move about the fame •, but likewise by it any Problem relating to the Sun, may be folved, that can be done by the Globes. And this any one that knows the Use of the Globes may likewise do.

SECTION II.

Of the common Copernican Sphere.

Fig. 4. This Sphere ftands upon four brafs or wooden Feet, upon each of which are fixed the four

Ends of a brafs or wooden Crofs, upon which Crofs is fattened a large hollow brafs or v/ooden Circle, whose Center is exactly over the Center of the Crofs. Upon the upper Plane of this Circle are the Calendars, and Circle of Signs defcribed, the fame as on the Horizon of the Globes. Clofe within the Infide of this Circle is fitted a flat moveable Rundle, whose Center is common with the Center of the Crofs. The outmost Limb of this Rundle is divided into 24 equal Parts, reprefenting the 24 Hours of Day and Night, numbered from the Index (of which more hereafter) towards the Right-hand with Numerical Letters from I to XII, and then beginning again with I, II, &c. to XII again.

There is a round Wheel fixed upon the Crofs, under the said Rundle, whose Convex Side is cut into a certain Number of Teeth. Thro' the Rundle, the Wheel on the Crofs, and the Crofs itfelf, is fitted a perpendicular Axis, about which the Rundle moves. This reprefents part of the Axis of the Ecliptick, and at the Top thereof is placed a little Golden Ball, re- prefenting the Sun.

On the under Side of the moveable Rundle moves another Wheel, whose Convex Side is cut into Teeth, and as the Rundle is turned about upon it's Center, this Wheel is also turn- ed about upon it's Center, by the falling in of the Teeth on that Wheel fixed on the Crofs. Likewise near the outmost Limb of the Rundle is fitted another Wheel, into which is fitted a Pedeftal, holding up a Sphere of several Parts, having a TerRestrial Globe inclofed therein, as shall be fhewn hereafter. The outmost Limb of this Wheel is likewise cut into Teeth, fitted into the Teeth of the fixed Wheel ; and so as the Rundle moves round, this Wheel is carried about, and with it likewise the Earth, and all the Circles faftened upon the afore- said Pedeftal.

On one Side of this Rundle is faftened a little round Pin to turn about the Rundle by, and near this Pin, is an Index upon the Rundle, reaching to the outward Limb of the great hollow Circle, and so at once may be applied to the Day of the Month in both Ca- lendars, and also to the Degree of the Ecliptick the Sun is in that Day at Noon. Note, This Index is called the Index of the moveable Rundle. On each Side of the Crofs is placed a Pillar, fupporting a broad Circle, reprefenting the Zodiack, with the Ecliptick in the

Middle

Chap. 3. of Spheres. 187

Middle thereof, as in the Ptolemaick Sphere. Note, This is called the Zodiack, in the Use

of the Sphere.

Upon the aforsaid Pedeftal are fattened two Circles cutting each other at Right Angles, reprcfenting the two Colures so placed, that the Points wherein they interfect each other ftand directly upwards and downwards, and reprefent the Poles of the Ecliptick, the upper- most being the North, and the other the South. One of these Colures, viz. the Solftitial, hath a small Hour-Circle placed thereon, at the Extremity of the Axis of the Earth. In the Middle, between the two Poles of the Ecliptick, is a Circle broader than the Colures, cut- ting them at Right Angles; and this reprcfents the Ecliptick, so called in the Use of the Sphere, and is divided into Degrees, figured with the Names and Characters of the Signs, and having on the inward Edge thereof fcveral of the moil notable fixed Stars, with the Names affixed to them, and each Star placed to the Degree and Minute of Longitude there- on, that it hath in Heaven.

Oblique to this Ecliptick 23 ; Degrees, on the Infide, is fitted a thin Circle, reprefent- incr the Equinoctial, and is divided into 360 Degrees, and having two parallel lelTer Circles at 23 ' Degrees equally distant therefrom, reprefenting the Tropicks. On the Infule of all these Circles, two thin Semi-Circles (called Semi-Circles of Latitude) are fitted in the Poles of the Ecliptick, so as one of them may move thro' one half the Ecliptick, viz. from Cancer thro' Aries to Capricorn \ and the other from Cancer thro' Libra to Capricorn : the lormer of these may be called the vernal Semi-Circle of Latitude, and the other the autumnal Semi- Circle of Latitude. On the Edge of these Semi-Circles are depicted the fame fixed Stars in their proper Longitude and Latitude, as are placed on the Ecliptick Circle aforsaid, with their several Names affixed to them.

Thro' the folftitial Colure at 23 4- Degrees from each Pole of the Ecliptick, goes a Wire, reprefenting the Earth's Axis, having an Index placed on the End thereof, for pointing at the Hour, on the Hour-Circle placed on the folftitial Colure, as aforsaid. In the Middle of this Axis is fixed a round Ball, reprefenting the Earth, having Meridians, Parallels, &c. and the Bounds of the Lands and Waters depicted thereon, as also the Names of as many Coun- tries and Towns as can be placed with conveniency thereon. And in two opposite Points of the Equinoctial of this Ball, viz. 90 Degrees distant from the first Meridian, are fixed two small Pins, whereon* a moveable Horizon is placed, in the Eait and West Points thereof \ so that these Pins ferve for an Axis to the Horizon : for on these Pins the Horizon may be elevated or depRested to any Degree the Pole is elevated above the Horizon. This Horizon Aides on the North and South Points, within a brazen Meridian, hung upon the Axis of the Earth.

Round this Meridian, on the outmost Side, is made a Groove, having a small brafs Ring fitted therein, so as the upper Side thereof is even with the upper Side of the brazen Meridian. This small brafs Ring is fattened to two opposite Points in the Horizon, viz. in the North and South, and fcrves as a Spring to keep it to the Degree of the Meridian you elevate the Hori- zon to. Upon two Pins on this small Ring, are likewise fattened two Semi-Circles of Altitude, yet not so fattened, but that they may move as upon Centers, the one moving from North to South, thro' the East-Side of the Horizon, and the .other the fame way thro' the West- Side. This Motion is performed upon the two Pins aforsaid, as upon two Poles, which they reprefent, viz. the Poles of the Horizon, and therefore are so placed, that they may divide the upper and lower half of the Horizon into two equal Parts, and as the Horizon is moved, Aide always into the Zenith and Nadir, and so become the Poles of the Horizon. Thefe two Semi-Circles of Altitude are divided into twice 90 Degrees, numbered at the Ho- rizon upwards and downwards, and ending at 90 in the Zenith and Nadir.

SECTION III.

The Use of the Copernican Sphere.

USE I. The Day of the Month given -, to reclify the Sphere for Use in any given La- titude, and to fet it correfpondent to the Situation of the Heavens.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and elevate the Ho- rizon to the Latitude of the Place ; then bring the Meridian to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, and the Index of the Hour-Circle to 12. Laftly, Bring the Center of the Earth, the Sun, or Golden Ball, in the Sphere, and the Sun in Heaven into a Right Line. Then will the Earth be rectified to it's Place in Heaven, the Horizon to it's Latitude on Earth, the Circles on the Sphere agreeable to those in Heaven, and the whole correfpondent with the Heavens for that Day at Noon.

USE II. The Day of the Month being given, to find the Sun's Declination. Rectify the Earth's Place (according to Use I.) and then you will have the Sun's Place in the Zodiack •, then bring the Meridian to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick on the Sphere ; and the Number of Degrees comprehended between the Equinodial and the Sun's Place, are the Sun's Declination for that Day at Noon.

USE III. 'To find the Sun's Right or Oblique Afcenfion for any Day at Noon.

Rectify the Earth's place to the Day of the Month, and bring the Meridian to the Sun's place in the Ecliptick •, and the Number of Degrees on the Equinoctial contained between the vernal Colure, and the Sun's place, are the Right Afcenfion fought.

Now to find the Oblique Afcenfion, turn the Earth 'till the East side of the Horizon ftands against the Sun, and the Degree of the Equinoctial then at the Horizon, fhews the Ob- lique Afcenfion.

USE IV. To find the Sun's Meridian Altitude.

Bring the Index of the Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Horizon to the Latitude of the Place. This being done, bring the Meridian to the Sun's place in the Ecliptick, and the Number of Degrees on the Meridian comprehended between the Horizon and the Sun's place, gives the Meridian Altitude fought.

U S E V. To find the Sun's Altitude at any time of the Day. Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon, and Hour-Index: then turn the Earth 'till the Hour-Index comes to the given Hour of the Day, and bring the vertical Circle to the Sun's place, and the Number of Degrees of the vertical Circle that tranfite the Sun's place, are his Altitude above the Horizon.

USE VI. The Sun's Altitude being given, to find the Hour of the Day. Bring the Index of the Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Horizon and Hour-Index (as by[Use I.); then turn the Earth 'till the you can fit the Horizon to the given Altitude upon the vertical Circle, directly against the Sun's place ; then the Hour-Index will give the Hour of the Day, refpect being had to the Morning or Afternoon.

USE VII. To find at what Hour the Sun comes to the Eajl or West Points of the Horizon.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour-Index (as by Use I.).; then bring the vertical Circle to the East Point of the Horizon, if it be the Sun's Easting you enquire ; or to the West Point of the Horizon, if it be the Sun's Westing. This being done, turn the Earth 'till the vertical Circle comes to the Sun's place ; then will the Index point to the Hour of the Day.

USE VIII. To find the time of the Sun's rifing or fetting. Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon, and Hour-Index, Then turn the Earth Eastwards, 'till some part of the East-side of the Horizon ftands directly against the Sun's place ; then will the Hour-Index point to the time of the Sun's rifing. Again, Turn the Earth 'till some part of the West-side of the Horizon ftands directly against the Sun's place, then the Index of the Hour-Circle will fhew the time of the Sun's letting.

USE IX. The Hour of the Day given, to find the Sun's Azimuth. Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour-Index. Then turn the Earth 'till the Hour-Index points to the Hour of the Day given. This being done, bring the vertical Circle to the Sun's place, and the Number of Degrees of the Horizon, that the vertical Circle cuts, counted from the East Point, either Northwards or Southwards, are the Degrees of the Sun's Azimuth before Noon. Or the Number of Degrees of the Horizon that the vertical Circle cuts, counted from the West- side of the Horizon, either Northwards or Southwards, give the Sun's Azimuth after Noon.

USE X. To find in what Place of the Earth the Sun is in the Zenith, at any given time; as also in what fever al Places of the Earth the Sun jh all ft and in the Horizon at the fame time.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Hour- Index j then feek the Sun's Declination, and turn the Earth eaftwards 'till the Index points to the given Hour ; so shall the Number of Degrees of the Equinoctial that the Meridian palles thro' while the Earth is thus turning, be the Number of Degrees of Longitude, eaft- wards from your Habitation, the Place shall have in the Parallel of the Sun's Declination.

Now if you open a Pair of Calliper Compafles to 90 Degrees on the Equinoctial, and place one Foot in this Point of the Earth thus found, and turn the other Foot round about the Earth, all the Places that the Foot pafles thro' will at that time have the Sun in their Horizon.

USE XL How to find the true Places of the Stars on the Sphere j as likewise their Longitude and Latitude. Round the Plane of the Ecliptick, are placed several of the moil noted fixed Stars, ac- cording to their true Longitude ; and along the two Semi-circles of Latitude, are the fame Stars placed according to their Latitude from the Ecliptick. Whence if you would find the true place of any given Star in the Sphere ; First feek the Star in the Ecliptick, and like- wife the fame Star on one of the Semi-circles of Latitude, and bring the edge of that Semi- circle to the Star in the Ecliptick ; then will the Star on the Semi-circle of Latitude ftand in the fame Place and Situation on the Sphere, that it does in Heaven.

USE XII. To find the Declination, right and oblique Afcenfion of a Star. Brinp- the proper Semi-circle of Latitude to the Star on the Ecliptick, and the Meridian to the Star on the Snni-circle of Latitude; and then the Number of Degrees on the Me- ridian, comprehended between the Equinoctial and the Star* are its Declination. Likewise the Decree of the Equator, cut by the Meridian, is the Star's right Afcenfion. But to find a°Star's oblique Afcenfion, rectify the Horizon (as by Use 1.) and bring the proper Semi-circle of Latitude to the Star in the Ecliptick, and turn the East-side of the Horizon to the Star ; then will the Degree of the Equator cut by the Horizon be the Star's oblique Afcenfion i

USE XIII. To find the Time of the Riftng and Setting of any Star in any given Latitude. Brino- the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour Index; then bring the proper Semi-circle of Latitude to the Star on the Ecliptick, and the East-side of the Horizon to the Star; this being done, the Hour- Index will fliew the Hour the Star rifes at : and if you bring the West-side of the Horizon to the Star, the Index of the Hour- Circle will fhew the Time that the Star fets.

USE XIV. The Day of the Month, Hour of the Night, and Latitude of the Place being
given, to know any remarkable Star observed in the Heavens.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour-Index ; then turn the Earth 'till the Index of the Hour-Circle comes to the Hour of the Night, and obferve the Altitude of the Star, and what Point of the Compass it bears upon. Afterwards bring the vertical Circle to the fame Point of the Compass, and number the Star's Altitude on the vertical Circle, and try with the Semi- circle of Latitude what Star you can fit to that Altitude, for that is the Star in the Heavens.

USE XV. The Azimuth of any known Star being given, to find the Hour of the Nighty

and Almicanter of that Star.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Horizon and Hour-Index ; afterwards bring the Star to its place, and the vertical Circle to its known Degree of Azimuth. This being done, turn the Earth 'till the vertical Circle comes to the Star; then the Index of the Hour-Circle will fliew the Hour of the Night, and the Degree of the vertical Circle cut by the Star will be its Almicanter.

SECTION IV.

The Dcfcription and Use of the Copernican Sphere, called the Orrery*

The Outfide of this Instrument, as appears by the figure thereof, is very beautiful, the pj a f e I( v Frame being of fine Ebony adorned with 12 Silver Pilasters, in the form of Caryatides ; and F i g . 1. with all the Signs of the Zodiuck caft of the fame Metal, and placed between them : the Handles arc also of Silver finely wrought, with very nice Joints. On the top of the Frame, which is exactly circular, is a broad Silver Ring, on which the Figures of the twelve Signs are exactly graved, with two Circles accurately divided ; one fhewing the Degrees of each Sign, and the other the Sun's Declination against his place in the Ecliptick each Day at Noon.

The aforsaid Silver Plate, reprefents the Plane of the great Ecliptick of the Heavens, or that of the Earth's annual Orbit round the Sun ; which, as it pafTes thro' the Center of the Sun, so its Circumference is made by the Motion of the Earth's Center; and which, for the better advantage of View and Sight, is in the Figure placed parallel to the Horizon.

S is a large gilded Ball, (landing up in the middle, whose Support A B makes with the Plane of the Ecliptick an Angle of about 82 Degrees. This Support reprefents the Sun's Axis continued, about which he revolves in about 25 Days, and the Golden Ball re- prefents the Sun itfelf placed pretty near the Center of the Earth's Orbit j so that when the Instrument is fet a-going, the Excentricity of the Earth, and the other Planets, may be in the fame Proportion as they are in the Heavens.

The two little Balls M and V, which ftand upon two Wires at different Distances from the Sun, reprefent Mercury and Venus : The reason why they are placed upon the said two "Wires, is only that their Centers may be fometimes in, and always pretty near the Plane of the great Ecliptick ; and this Pofition is contrived in order to fhew what Appearances they do really exhibit in their several Revolutions round the Sun.

The Globe E is of Ivory, and reprefents the Earth. The Pin or Wire that fupports it, reprefents the Earth's Axis continued, and makes an Angle of 66 I Degrees, with the Plane of the Ecliptick. And as the Earth in each of her annual Revolutions round the Sun, always keeps her own Axis parallel to itfelf j so when this Instrument is fet a-going, the little Ivory Earth will likewise do so too, in it's Revolution round the Golden Sun S.

The little Ball m (landing upon a Wire, reprefents the Moon, and ab is a Silver Circle reprefenting her Orbit round about the Earth, the Plane whereof always passes thro' the Center of the Earth ; and there are several Eigures graved upon it, fhewing the Moon's Age, from one New Moon to the other.

One half of the Moon's Globe is white, and the other black, that so her Phafes may be reprefented: for this Instrument is so contrived, that this little Moon will turn round it's own Axis, at the fame time as it moves in the Silver Orbit round the Earth E.

The whole Movement, which confifts of near ioo Wheels, is covered by a great Brass Plate, having a Hole in it, and there is a moveable Index on the Silver Ecliptick, on the former of which, are the common Solar Years denoted ; and by taking the Instrument to 'pieces, it may be fet to this prefent time ; and the Planets, by means of an Ephemeris, may be fet to any particular time also. So that if a Weight or Spring, as in a Clock, were ap- plied to the Axis of the Movement, so as to make it move round once in juft twenty-four Hours, the reprefentative Planets in the Instrument, viz. Mercury, Venus, the Earth, and the Moon, would all perform their Motions round the Sun, and one another, exactly in the fame Order as their Originals do in the Heavens ; and so the Afpects, Eclipfes, &c. of the Sun and Planets, would thereby be fhewn for ever. But becaule this would be inftrudtive only in that flow and tedious way, to such as could have daily recourfe to it, therefore there is a Handle fitted to it, by which the Axis may be fwiftly turned round •, and so all the Appearances fhewn in a very little time : for by turning the Handle backwards or for- wards, what Eclipfes, Tranfits, &c. have happened in any time paft, or what will hap- pen for any time to come, will be fhewn, without doing any injury to the Inftru- ment.

One entire Turn of the Handle of this Instrument, anfwers to the diurnal Motion of the Earth about it's Axis, and is measured by means of an Hour-Index, placed at the Foot of the Wire whereon the Earth is fixed, moving once round in the fame time. Also ob- ferve that the Contrivance of this Instrument is such, that the Motion may be made to tend either way, forwards or backwards ; and so the Handle may be turned about 'till the Earth be brought to any Degree or Point of the Ecliptick required.

Again, As the Earth moves round, by turning the Handle, the Moon's Orbit rifes and falls about 5 Degrees above and below the great Ecliptick, that so her North or South La- titude may be exactly reprefented ; and there are two little Studs placed in two oppofue Points of the Moon's Orbit, reprefenting the Moon's Nod.s.

Now if the Handle, one Turn of which anfwers to one Natural Day, or twenty-four Hours, be turned twenty-five times about, then the Sun will have moved once round about it's Axis. Again, 365 -\ of the Turns of the Handle will carry the Earth quite round the Sun ; 88 will carry Mercury quite round ; 244 will make Venus move once round the Sun; and about 27 -i Turns will carry the Moon round the Earth in her Orbit, which will like- wife at the fame time always turn tfje fame Hemifphere towards the Earth.

And by thus revolving the Earth and Planets round the Sun, the Instrument may be brought to exhibit Mercury, and fometimes Venus, as directly interpofed between the Earth and the Sun •, and then they will appear as Spots in the Sun's Disk : and this Instrument fhews also very clearly the Difference between the Geocentrick and Heliocentrick Afpects, according as the Eye is placed in the Center of the Earth or Sun.

This Instrument likewise very plainly fhews the Difference between the Moon's Periodick and Synodick Months, and the reason thereof; for if the Earth be fet to the first Point of Aries, at which time suppose the first New Moon happens, and afterwards the Handle be turned 27 \ times about, we fliall have the second New Moon ; and if at the Earth's Place in the Ecliptick where this last New Moon happens, some Mark be made, and then the Handle be turned 27 - times more, the Moon will be exactly brought again to interpofe between the Earth and the Sun, that is, it will be New Moon with us : but the Line of the Syzygy will not be right against the aforsaid Mark in the Ecliptick, but behind it; and it will require two Days time, or two Turns more of the Handle, before it gets thither. The reason of this is plain, because in this 27 -^ Days, the Earth advances so far forwards in her annual Courfe, as is the Quantity of the Difference in time between the Moon's two Months.

If the Handle be turned about 'till the Conjunction or Oppoiition of the Sun and Moon happens in or near the Nodes, then there will be an Eclipfe of the Sun or Moon. But in order yet further to fhew the Solar Eclipfes, and also the several Seafons of the Year, the Increafe and Decreafe of Day and Night, and the different Lengths of each in different Parts of our Earth, there is a little Lamp contrived to put on upon the Body of the Sun, which carting, by means of a Convex Glass (the Room wherein the Instrument is, being a little darkened), a strong Light upon the Earth, will fhew at once all these things: First, how one half of our Globe is always illuminated by the Sun, while the other Hemifphere is in the dark, and confequently how Day and Night are formed by the Revolution of the Earth round her Axis. Also by turning round the Handle, you will fee how the Shadow of the Moon's Body will cover some part of the Earth, and thereby fhew, that to the Inhabitants of that part of the Earth there will be a Solar Eclipfe.

When the Earth is brought to the first Degree of Aries or Libra, the reason of the Equa- lity of Days and Nights all over the Earth, will be plainly fhewn by this Instrument ; for in these Pofitions, as the Earth turns about her Axis, juft one half of the Equator, and all Parallels thereto, will be in the Light, and the other half in the Dark ; and therefore the Days and Nights must be every where equal : for the Horizon of the Earth's Disk will be parallel to the Plane of the Solftitial Colure.

And when the Earth is brought to Cancer, the Horizon of the Disk, or that Plane which divides the Earth's enlightened Hemifphere from the darkened one, will not then be parallel to, but lie at Right Angles to the Plane of the Solftitial Colure. The Earth being now in Cancer, the Sun will appear to be in Capricorn, and confequently it will be our Winter Solftice. And as the Earth is turned either way about it's Axis, the entire Northern frigid Zone, or all Parts of the Earth lying within the Artick Circle, are in the dark Hemifphere; and by making a Mark in any given Parallel, by the Earth's diurnal Revolution, you will know how much longer the Nights are than the Days in that Parallel. And the contrary of this will happen, when the Earth is brought to Capricorn.

Therefore this Instrument delightfully and demonftratively fhews, how thereby all the Phaenomena of the different' Seafons of the Year, and the Varieties and VicifTitudes of Night and Day, are folved and accounted for.

CHAP. IV.

Of an Aflrono?nical Quadrant ', Micrometer^ and Gunter'j

Quadrant,

SECTION I.

THIS Figure reprefents an Aftronomical Quadrant upon it's Pedeftal, with it's Limb Fig. 2. curioufly divided diagonally, and furnifhed with a fixed and moveable Telescope.

This Quadrant may be moved round horizontally, by turning a perpetual Screw fitted into the Pedeftal : For as this Screw is turned about by means of a Key, at the fame time it caufes the Axis A to turn, by the falling in of its Threads between the Teeth of a strong thick Circle on the said Axis.

Behind the Quadrant is fixed, at Right Angles to its Plane, a strong thick Portion of a Circle greater than a Semicircle, having one Semi-circle of the outfide thereof cut into Teeth. There is likewise another strong thick Portion of a Circle fomething greater than a Semi-circle behind the Quadrant, which is moveable upon two fixed Studs, at Right Angles to the former Portion ; so that the Plane of this Portion may be parallel, inclined, or at Right Angles to the Plane of the Quadrant. On the side of this Portion, which is made flat next to the other fixed Portion, is a contrivance with a Screw an'd perpetual Screw, such that in turning the Screw the Threads of the perpetual Screw may be locked in betwen the Teeth of the fixed circular Portion ; and by this means the Quadrant fixed to any Point, according to the direction of the Plane of the fixed Portion. And when the Quadrant is to be moved but a small matter in the aforsaid Direction, this may be done by turning the perpetual Screw with a Key.

The Outfide of the abovementioned moveable circular Portion is cut into Teeth, and about the Center thereof the Axis A is moveable, according to the Direction of the Plane of the said Portion. In this Axis Aides a little Piece carrying a perpetual Screw, whose Threads, by means of a Trigger, may be locked in between the Teeth of the moveable circular Portion. And so when the Axis is fet in the Pedeftal, the Quadrant may be fixed to any Point, according to the Direction of the Plane of the said moveable Portion.

Therefore by these Contrivances the Quadrant may be readily fixed to any required Si- tuation, for obferving Celeftial Phaenomeua, without moving the Pedeftal.

There is a Piece Aiding on the Index, upon which the moveable Telescope is fattened, carrying a Screw and perpetual Screw ; so that when the Telescope and Index are to be fixed upon any Point in the Limb of the Instrument, this may be done, by means of the Screw which locks the Threads of the perpetual Screw in between some of the Teeth cut round the curve Surface of the Limb of the Instrument: and when the Index and Te- lefcope is to be moved a very minute Space backwards or forwards along the Limb, this is done by means of a Key turning a small Wheel faftened upon the aforenamed Piece, which is cut into a certain Number of Teeth, and whose Axis is at Right Angles to the Plane of the Quadrant; for this Wheel moves another (having the fame Number of Teeth as that) which is at the end of the Cylinder whereon the perpetual Screw is : and by this means the perpe- tual Screw is turned about ; and so the Index and Telescope may be moved a very minute Space backwards or forwards along the Limb. Note, The Number of Teeth the Curve Surface of the Limb is divided into, must be as great as pofiible, and the Threads of the perpetual Screw falling between them very fine ; for the Exactnefs of the Instrument very much depends upon thus.

Thefe Quadrants are commonly two Feet Radius, and all Brass, except the Pedeftal and the perpetual Screws ; the Telescopes have each two Glastes and Crofs-hairs in their Foci ; and for the Manner of dividing their Limbs, &c. See our Author's Quadrants.

SECTION II.

Concerning a Micrometer.

ig, 3&lt; This Micrometer is made of Brass : ABC^ is a rectangular Brass Frame, the Side A B

being about 3 Inches long, and the Side B C, as likewise the opposite Side A g, are about 6 Inches ; and each of these three Sides are -Ay of an Inch deep. The two opposite Sides of this Frame are fcrewed to the circular Plate, which we mall fpeak of by and by.

The Screw P having exactly 40 Threads in an Inch, being turned round, moves the Plate GDEF, along two Grooves made near the Tops of the two opposite Sides of the Frame ; and the Screw QJiaving the fame Number of Threads in an Inch as P, moves the Plate RNMY along two Grooves made near the bottom of the said Frame, in the fame di- rection as the former Plate moves, but with half the Velocity as that moves with. Thefe Screws are both at once turned, and so the said Plates moved along the fame way, by means of a Handle turning the perpetual Screw S, whose Threads fall in between the Teeth of Pinions on the Screws P and Q^ Note, Two and a half Revolutions of the perpetual Screw S, moves the Screw P exactly once round.

The Screw P turns the Hand a, faftened thereto over 100 equal Divisions made round the Limb of a circular Plate, to which the abovenamed two opposite Sides of the Frame are fcrewed at Right Angles. The Teeth of the Pinion of the Screw P, whose Number are 5, takes into the Teeth of a Wheel, on the backfide of the circular Plate, whose Number are 25. Again, On the Axis of this Wheel is a Pinion of two, which takes into the Teeth of another Wheel moving about the Center of the circular Plate, without side the fame, having 50 Teeth. This lalt Wheel moves the leffer Hand b once round the abovenamed circular Plate, in the T .^ part of the time the Hand a is moving round : for because the Number of Teeth of the Pinion on the Screw P, are 5, and the Number of Teeth of the Wheel this Pinion moves round, are 20-, therefore the Screw P moves four times round in the fame time the said Wheel is moving once round. Again, Since there is a Pinion of two takes into the Teeth of a Wheel, whose Number are 50, therefore this Wheel with go Teeth will move once round in the fame time that the Wheel of 20 Teeth hath moved twenty-five times round ; and confequently the Screw P, or Hand a, must move a hundred times round in the fame time as the Wheel of 50 Teeth, or the Hand b&gt; hath moved once round.

It follows from what hath been said, that if the circular Plate W, which is faftened at Right Angles to the other circular Plate, be divided into 200 equal Parts, the Index x to which the Handle is faftened, will move five of these Parts in the fame time that the Hand a has moved one of the hundred Divisions round the Limb of the other circular Plate: and fo by means of the Index x, and Plate W, every fifth Part of each of the Divisions round the other Plate may be known.

Moreover, Since each of the Screws P and Q^ have exactly 40 Threads in an Inch; therefore the upper Plate GDEF will move 1 Inch, when the Hand a hath moved forty times round, the four thoufandth part of a Inch, when the said Hand hath moved over one of the Divisions round the Limb, and the twenty thoufandth part of an Inch, when the Index x hath moved one part of the 200 round the Limb of the circular Plate W j and the under Plate RNMY, half an Inch, the two thoufandth part of an Inch, and the ten thoufandth part of an Inch the fame way, in the said refpective times.

Hence, if the under Plate, having a large round Hole therein, be fixed to a Telescope- so that the Frame may be moveable together with the whole Instrument, except the said lower Plate, and the ftrait fmooth Edge HI, of the fixed narrow Plate A B IH, as likewise the ftrait fmooth Edge D E of the moveable Plate G D E F, be perceivable thro' the round Hole * the under Plate, in the Focus of the Object-Glass ; then when the Handle of the Micro- meter is turned, the Edge H I of the narrow Plate ABIH, fixed to the Frame, and D E of the moveable Plate, will appear thro' the Telescope equally to accede to, or recede from, each other. And so these Edges will ferve to take the apparent Diameters of the Sun, Moon, He. the manner of doing which is thus : Suppose in looking at the Moon thro' the Tele- fcope, you have turned the Handle 'till the two Edges D E and H I are opened, so as to iuft touch or clafp the Moon's Edges ; and that there was twenty-one Revolutions of the Hand a to compleat that Opening. First fay, As the focal Length of the Object-Glass, which suppose io Feet, is to Radius, So is i Inch to the Tangent of an Angle fubtended by 1 Inch in the Focus of the Object-Glass, which will be found 28 Min. 30 Sec. Again, Be- caufe there are exa&ly 4o«Threads of the Screws in one Inch, fay, If forty Revolutions of the Hand a give an Angle of 28 Min. 38 Sec. what Angle will twenty-one Revolutions give? The Anfwtr will be 15 Min. 8 Sec. and such was the Moon's apparent Diameter, and io may the apparent Diameters of any diflant Objects be taken.

It is to be observed, that the Divisions upon the top of the Plate G D E F, are Diagonal Divisions of the Revolutions of the Screws, with Diagonal Divisions of Inches againlt them ; and so as the said Plate Aides along, these Diagonals are cut by Divisions made on the Edge of the narrow Plate KL, fixed to the opposite Sides of the Frame by means of two Screws. Thefe Diagonal Divisions may ferve to count the Revolutions of the Screws, and to fiiew how many there are in an Inch, or the Parts of an Inch.

SECTION III.

Of the Cortflruttion of Gunter'j Quadrant.

This Quadrant, which is partly a Projection, that is, the Equator, Tropicks, Eclip- p . tick, and Horizon, are ftereographically projected upon the Plane of the Equinoctial, the Eye s being supposed to be placed in one of the Poles, may be thus made.

About the Center A defcribe the Arc CD, which may reprefent either of the Tropicks. Again, Divide the Semidiameter AT so in E, that AE being Radius, AT may be the Tangent of 56 Deg. 46 Min. half the Sun's greateft Declination above the Radius or Tan- gent of 45 Deg. To do which, fay, As the Tangent of 56 Deg. 46 Min is to 1000 ; So is Radius to 655: therefore if AT be made 1000 equal Parts, A E, the Radius of the Equator, will be 655 of those Parts. And if about the Center A, with the Distance AE, the Quadrant E F be defcribed, this will ferve for the Equinoctial.

Now to find the Center of the Ecliptick, which will be fomewhere in the left Side of the Quadrant AD (reprefenting the Meridian) you must divide AD so in G, that if A F be the Radius, AG may be the Tangent of 23. Deg. 30 Min. the Sun's greateft De- clination; therefore if AF be 1000, AG will be 434. And if about the Center G, with the Semidiameter G D, an Arc E D be defcribed, this will be I of the Ecliptick. And to divide it into Signs and Degrees, you must use this Canon, viz. As Radius is to the Tan- gent of any Degree's distance from the neaRest Equinoctial Point, So is the Co-fine of the Sun's greateft Declination to the Tangent of that Degree's Right Afcenfion, which must be counted on the Limb from the Point B, by which means the Quadrant of the Ecliptick may be graduated.

As, for Example, The Right Afcenfion of the first Point of « being 27 Deg. 54 Min. lay a Ruler to the Center A, and 27 Deg. 54 Min. on the Limb, from B towards C, and-whers it cuts the Ecliptick, will be the first Point of a ; and so for any other.

The Line ET, between the Equator and the Tropick, which is called the Line of De- clination, may be divided into 23 Deg. 30 Min. in laying off from the Center A, the Tan- gent of each Degree added to 45 Deg, the Line A E being supposed the Radius of the Equinoctial. As suppose the Point for 10 Degrees of Declination be to be found, add 5 Deg. (half 10.) to 45 Deg. and the Sum will be 50 Deg. the Tangent of which will be (supposing the Radius 1000) 1192 : therefore laying 1192 Parts from A, or 192 from E, and you will have a Point for 10 Degrees of Declination •, and so for others.

Moft of the principal Stars between the Equator and Tropick of Cancer^ maybe put on the Quadrant by means of their Declination, and Right Afcenfion. As suppose the Wing of Pegafus be 13 Deg. 7 Min. and the Right Afcenfion 358 Deg. 34 Min. from the first Point of Aries. Now if about the Center A, you draw an occult Parallel thro' 13 Deg. 7 Min. of Declination, and then lay a Ruler from the Center A thro' 1 Deg. 26 Min. (the Complement of 358 Deg. 34 Min. to 360 Deg.) in the Limb BC, the Point where the Ruler cuts the Parallel, w'rll be the Place for the Wing of Pegafus, to which you may fet the Name, and the Time when he comes to the South.

There being Space fufficicnt between the Equator and the Center, you may there de- fcribe the Qu ad rant, and divide each of the two Sides further!: from the Center into ioo Parts; so (hall the Quadrant be generally prepared for any Latitude*. But before the particular Lines can be drawn, you mutt have tour Tables fitted tor the Latitude the Qua- drant is to ferve in.

Firtt, A Table of Meridian Altitudes for the Division of the Circles of Days and Months, which may be thus made : Confider the Latitude of the Place, and the Sun's Declination for each Day of the Year-, if the Latitude and Declination be both North, or both South, add the Declination to the Complement of the Latitude; if they be one North and the other South, fubftract the Declination from the Complement of the Latitude, and you will have the Meridian Altitude for that Day. As, in the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min. North, whose Complement is 38 Deg. 28 Min. the Declination on the 10th of June will be 23 Deg. 30 Min. North ; therefore add 23 Deg. 30 Min. to 38 Deg. 28 Min. and the Sum will be 61 Deg. 58 Min. the Meridian Altitude on the 10th ot June. Again, The Declination on the 10th of December will be 23 Deg. 30 Min. South ; wherefore take 23 Deg. 30 Min. from 1% Deg. 28 Min. and the Remainder will be 14 Deg. 58 Min. the Meridian Altitude on the 10th of December. And in this manner may the Meridian Altitude for each Day in the Year be found, and put in a Table.

Your Table being made, you may inferibe the Months and Days of each Month on the Quadrant, in the Space left below the Tropick. As, Laying a Ruler upon the Center A, and 16 Deg. 42 Min. the Sun's Meridian Altitude on the ilt of January, in the Limb BC, you may draw a Line for the end of December and beginning of January. Again, Lay- ing a Ruler to the Center A, and 24 Deg. 34 Min. the Sun's Altitude at Noon the end of January, or first of February, on the Limb, and you may draw a Line for that Day. And so of others.

Now to draw the Horizon, you mutt find its Center, which will be in the Meridian Line A C ; and it the Point H be taken such, that if A H be the Tangent Complement of the Latitude, viz. of 38 Deg. 28 Min. AF being supposed Radius; or if A F be supposed 1000, and AH 776 of thoie Parts, then will H be the Center of the Horizon. Therefore if about the Center H, with the Distance HE, an Arc be defcribed cutting the Tropick T D, the said Arc will reprefent the Horizon.

The next thing done, mil it be to make a Table for the Division of the Florizon, which may be done by this Canon, viz. As Radius is to the Sine of the Latitude, So is the Tan- gent of any Number of Degrees in the Florizon (which will be not more than 40 in our Latitude) to the Tangent of the Arc in the Limb which will divide the Florizon.

As in our Latitude, 7 Deg. ^2 Min. belongto 10 Deg. of the Degrees of the Florizon; there- fore laying a Ruler to the Center A, and 1 Deg. 52 Min. in the Limb B C, the Point where the Ruler cuts the Florizon, will be 10 Deg. in the Horizon ; and so of the re It. But the Lines of DittincYion between every 5th Degree are beft drawn from the Center H.

The third Table for drawing the Hour-Lines, mutt be a Table of the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon at every Hour, efpecially when he comes to the Equator, Tropicks, and other intermediate Declinations. If the Sun be in the F.quator, and so have no Declination, as Radius to the Co- fine of the Latitude, so is the Co-fine of any Hour from the Meridian to the Sine of the Sun's Altitude at that Hour.

But if the Sun be not in the Equator, you must fay, As the Co-fine of the Hour from the Meridian is to Radius, So is the Tangent of the Latitude to the Tangent of a 4th Arc. Then confider the Sun's Declination, and the Hour proposed ; it the Latitude and Decli- nation be both alike, and the Hour fall between Noon and Six, fubftract the Declination from the aforsaid 4th Arc, and the Remainder will be a 5th Arc.

But if the Hour be either between Six and Midnight, or the Latitude and Declination unlike, add the Declination to the 4th Arc, and the Sum will be a 5th Arc. Then as the Sine of the fourth Arc is to the Sine of the Latitude, so is the Co-fine of the 5th Arc to the Sine of the Altitude fought.

Laftly, You may find the Sun's Declination when he rifes or fets, at any Hour, by this Canon, viz. As Radius is to the Sine of the Hour from Six, So is the Co-tangent of the La- titude to the Tangent of the Declination.

As in our Latitude you willl find, that when the Sun rifes at five in the Summer, or seven in the Winter, his Declination is 11 Deg. 36 Min. whence you willfind the Sun's Me- ridian Altitude in the beginning of 20 will be 61 Deg. 58 Min. in n 58 Deg. 40 Min. in &gt;5 49 Deg. 58 Min. in °r 38 Deg. 30 Min. &c. but the beginning of 25 and ur is reprefented by the Tropick TD, drawn thro' 23 Deg. 30 Min. of Declination, and the beginning ot &lt;r and ±± by the Equator E F. Now if you draw an occult Parallel between the Fquitor and the Tropick, at 1 1 Deg. 30 Min. of Declination, it shall reprefent the beginning of s , "&gt;", ni, and X. If you draw another occult Parallel thro' 20 Deg. 12 Min. of Declination, it will reprefent the beginning of u, 51, f and .cr.

Then Jay a Ruler from the Center A thro' 61 Deg. 58 Min. of Altitude in the Limb BC, and note the Point where it croffes the Tropick of 22. Then move the Ruler to 58 Deg.

40 Mm. and note where it croffes the Parallel of n ■, then to 49 Deg. 58 Min. and note where it crofles the Parallel of « ; and again to 38 Deg. 28 Min. noting where it croffes the Equ ;i.or •, and a Line drawn thro' these Points will reprefent the Line of 12 in the Summer while the Sun is in r, «, n, sr, si, or "R. In like manner, if you lay a Ruler to A and 26 Deg. 58 Min. in the Limb, and note the Point where it croffes the Parallel of x ; then move it to 18 Deg, 16 Min. and note where it croffes the Parallel of sx. And a^a*in, to 14 Deg, 58 Min. noting where it croffes the Tropick of vf •, the Line drawn thro' these Po'ints fh.ill (hew the 1 lour of twelve in the Winter. And in this manner may the Rest of the Hour- Lines be drawn, only that of seven from the Meridian in Summer, and five in the Winter, will crofs the Line of Declination, at 11 Deg. 35 Min. and that of eight in the Summer, and four in the Winter, at 21 Deg. 38 Min.

The fourth Table for drawing of the Azimuth Lines must also be made for the Al- titude of the Sun above the Horizon, at every Azimuth, efpecially when the Sun comes to the Equator, Tropicks, and some other intermediate Declinations.

If the Sun be in the Equator, and so has no Declination, as Radius to the Co- fine of the Azimuth from the Meridian ; so is the Tangent of the Latitude to the Tangent of the Sun's Altitude at the Azimuth in the Equator.

If the Sun be not in the Equator, as the Sine of the Latitude is to the Sine of the De- clination, io is the Co-fine of the Sun's Altitude at the Equator, at a given Azimuth, to the Sine of a 4th Arc.

Now when the Latitude and Declination are both alike in all Azimuths, from the Prime Vertica to the Meridian, add this 4 th Arc to the Arc of Altitude at the Equator But when the Azimuth is above 90 Degrees distant from the Meridian, take the Altitude at the Equator from this 4th Arc When the Latitude and Declination are unlike, take the said 4 th Arc from the Arc of Altitude at the Equator, and then you will have the Sun's Altitude for a propoled Azimuth.

Laftly, When the Sun rifes or fets upon any Azimuth, to find his Declination, fay, As Radius to the Co-fine of the Latitude, So is the Co-fine of the Azimuth from the Meridian,

to the Sine of the Declination.

t N °Z % T a bh w^ S n ]' dd f accordin g t0 the ar °refaid DiRestions, if you would draw the L.neo East or West, which is 90 Degrees from the Meridian, lay a Ruler to the Center A and 30 Deg 38 Min. numbered in the Limb from C towards B, and note the Point where it croffes the Tropick of sb , then move the Ruler to 26 Deg. 10 Min. and note where t croffes the Parallel of D s then to 14 Deg. 45 Min. and note where it croffes the Parallel of « ; then to o" and 0°, and you will find it crofs the Equator in the Point F : then a Line drawn

be' drawn " ^ ** ^ ** *** Wcft AZ ' imuih - A " d so ^ -D^A^S

Thefe Lines being thus drawn, if you fet two Sights upon the Line AC and at

£ &£ wllfbe fil^ P1UmmCt ' Wlth 3 * S "*» ^ "' &lt;™e of

USE I the Sun's Place being given, to find his Right Afcenfion, and contrariwife.

Let the I hread be aid upon the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, and the Degrees which it cuts m the Limb, will be the Right Afcenfion fought agrees which it

DetVwI^^fi^f i^hfT' 5 f Jac \ b V hC 4 h ? egreG ° f "' the Thread laid on this ue ,ee will cu. 62 Ueg. in tne Limb, which is the Right Afcenfion required But if rhf*

o n re\h n^o DeT Zll^cT^^^ °^ ^ *$ J^f™ lite

T l?! E t! ' P" S "/' Pla " k '"Z X' ve "' " J&gt;" d his Declination, and contrariwife. Thread to \w7n' ?'n f ^ Bead to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick ; then move the of Donation fought! DeC ' lnat ' on &gt; aild th "&lt; th &lt; ^ "ill fall upon tfc Degrees of the line

thif PlacTnt^le TW?'' ? C&lt; t be th c e 4th D ^ ree of »&gt; the B " d W"g fi* fet to Declfnation ,75^.' fi^*^^"* °" ^"^ ^ &lt; here ?° u wi " «"" "" Sun's

^Thread ^d^Z ^ ° S nT" 1 '. in haV ' n 8 the Declination given, you mud first lay give the sl-rpla^efought DcC ' ,nat,0n &gt; and thcn th = *«l ™ved to the Ecliptick wiS

USE III. The Bay of the Month being given, to find the Sun's Meridian Altitude, and contrariwife.

Lay the Thread to the Day of the Month, and the Degrees which it cuts in the Limb will be the Sun's Meridian Altitude.

Suppose the Day given be May the 15th, the Thread laid upon this Day will cut 59 Dew. 20 iVIin. the Meridian Altitude fought.

Again, If the Thread be let to the Meridian Altitude, it will fall upon the Day of the Month.

As, suppose the Sun's Meridian Altitude be 59 Deg. 30 Min. the Thread fet to this Altitude falls upon the 15th Day of May, and the 9th of July ; and which of those two is the true Day, may be known by the Quarter of the Year, or by another Day's Obferva- tion : for it the Sun's Altitude be greater, the Thread will fall upon the 16th of May, and the 8th of July ; and if it prove leffer, then the Thread will fall on the 14th of May, and the 10th of July \ whereby the Queftion is fully anfwered.

USE IV. The Sun's Altitude being given, to find the Hour of the Bay, and contrariwife.

Having put the Bead to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, obferve the Sun's Altitude by the Quadrant; and then if the Thread be laid over the fame in the Limb, the Bead will fall upon the Hour required. For example; Suppose on the 10th of April, the Sun b^ing then in the beginning of Taurus, I obferve his Altitude by the Quadrant to be 36 Deg. place the Bead to the beginning of Taurus in the Ecliptick, and afterwards lay the Thread over 36 Degrees of the Limb ; then the Bead will fall upon the Hour-Line of 9 and 3 : and so the Hour is 9 in the Morning, or 3 in the Afternoon. Again, If the Altitude be near 40 Degrees, the Bead will fall half way between the Hour-Line of 9 and 3, and the Hour- Line of 10 and 2. Wherefore it mutt be either half an Hour paft 9 in the Morning, or half an Hour paft two in the /ifternoon; and which of these is the true Time of the Day, may be known by a second Obfervation : For if the Sun rifes higher, it is Morning, and if it be- comes lower, it is Afternoon.

Now to find the Sun's Altitude by having the Hour given, you must lay the Bead upon the Hour given (having first rectified or put it to the Sun's Place) and then the Degrees of the Limb cut by the Thread, will be the Sun's Altitude fought.

Note, The Bead may be rectified otherwise, in bringing the Thread to the Day of the Month, and the Bead to the Hour-Line of 12.

U S E V. To find the Sun's Amplitude either rifing orfettihg, when the Bay of the Month or

Sun's Place is given.

Let the Bead rectified for the time, be brought to the Horizon ; and there it will (hew the Amplitude fought. If, for example, the Day given be the 4th of May, the Sun will then be in the 4th Degree of Gemini. Now if the Bead be rectified and brought to the Ho- rizon, it will there fall on 35 Deg. 8 Min. and this is the Sun's Amplitude of rifing from the East, and of his fetting from the West.

USE VI. The Bay of the Month or Sun's Place being given, to find the Afcenfwnal Bifference. Rectify the Bead for the given time, and afterwards bring it to the Horizon -, then the Degrees cut by the Thread in the Limb will be the afceniional Difference. And if the afcenfional Difference be converted into time, in allowing an Hour for 15 Degrees, and four Minutes of an Hour for one Degree, then we fliall have the time of the Sun's rifing before fix in the Summer, and after fix in the Winter : and confequently the Length of Day and Night may be known by this means.

USE VII. The Sun's Altitude being given, to find his Azimuth, and contrariwife.

Rectify the Fead for the time, and obferve the Sun's Altitude. Then bring the Thread to the Complement of that Altitude, and so the Bead will give the Azimuth fought upon or among the Azimuth Lines.

And to find the Altitude by having the Azimuth given, having rectified the Bead to the Time, move the Thread 'till the Bead falls on the given Azimuth -, then the Degrees of the Limb cut by the Thread, will be the Sun's Altitude at that time.

U S E VIII. The Altitude of any one of the five Stars on the Quadrant being given, to find the

Hour of the Night.

First, Put the Bead to the Star, which you intend to obferve, and find how many Hours he is from the Meridian by Uje IV. then from the Right Afcenfion of the Star, fubftract the Sun's Right Afcenfion converted into Hours, and mark the Difference : for this Difference added to the observed Hour of the Star from the Meridian, will fhew how many Hours the Sun is gone from the Meridian, which is in effect the Hour of the Night.

For Example ; The 15th of My, the Sun being in the' 4th Degree of Gemini, I fet the Bead to ArRurus, and obferving his Altitude, find him to be in the West, about 52 Deg. hiah, and the Bead to fall upon the Hour-Line of two after Noon ; then the Hour will be li° Hours 50 Mm. paft Noon, or 10 Minutes fhorc of Midnight. For 62 Deg. the Sun's right Afcenfion, converted into Time, makes 4 Hours 8 Min. which if we take out of 13 Flours rS Mm. the right Afcenfion of Artlurus, the Difference will be 9 Hours 50 Min. and this being added to two Hours, the observed Distance of Artlurus from the Meridian, (hews the Hour of the Night to be 1 1 Hours 50 Min.

Thus have I briefly fhe'wn the Manner of folving fevefal of the chief and molt useful Agronomical Problems, by means of this Quadrant. As for the Manner of taking Altitudes in Decrees, as likewise the Useof the Quadrat, fee our Author's Quadrant.

There are other Quadrants made by Mr Sutton long since •, one of which (being in my Opinion the beft) is a Stereographical Projection of 4. of those Circles, or quarter of the Sphere between the Tropicks, upon the Plane of the Equinoctial, the Eye being in the North Pole.

The said quarter on the Quadrant, is that between the South part of the Meridian, and Flour of Six, which will leave out all the outward Part of the Almicanters between it and the Tropick of Capricorn ; and inftead thereof, there is taken in such a like Part of the de- preffed Parallels to the Horizon, between the fame Hour of Six and Tropick of Capricorn, for the Parallels of Deprefllon have the fame Refpect to the Tropick of Capricorn, as the Paral- lels of Altitude have to the Tropick of Cancer, and will produce the fame Effect.

This Projection is fitted for the Latitude of London: and those Lines therein that run from the Ricrht-hand to the Left, are Parallels of Altitude ; and those which crofs them, are Azi- muths. The lefler of the Circles that bounds the Projection, is one fourth of the Tropick of Capricorn, and the other one fourth of the Tropick of Cancer. There are also the two Eclipticks drawn from the fame Point in the left Edge of the Quadrant, with the Characters of the Signs upon them •, as likewise the two Horizons from the fame Point. The Limb is divided both into Degrees and Time, and by having the Sun's Altitude given, we may find the Hour of the Day to a Minute by this Quadrant.

The Ouadranta! Arcs next the Center contain the Calendar of Months •, and under them in another Arc is the Sun's Declination : so that a Thread laid from the Center over any Day of the Month, will fall upon the Sun's Declination that Day in this last Arc, and on the Limb upon the Sun's right Afcenfion for that fame Day. There are several of the rnoffe noted fixed Stars between the Tropics, placed up and down in the Projection •, and next below the Projection is the Quadrat and Line of Shadows, being only a Line of natural Tangents to the Arcs of the Limb j and by help thereof, the Heights of Towers, SteepleSi fcff. may be pretty exactly taken.

Now the Manner of using this Projection in finding the Time of the Sun's rifing or fetting, his Amplitude, Azimuth, the Hour of the Day, &c. is thus : Having laid the Thread to the Day of the Month, bring the Bead * to the proper Ecliptick (which is called rectifying it), and afterwards move the Thread, and bring the Bead to the Horizon : then the Thread will cut the Limb in the Time of the Sun's rifing or fetting, before or after Six* And at the fame Time the Bead will cut the Horizon in the Degrees of the Sun's Ampli- tude. Again, Suppose the Sun's Altitude on the 24th of April be observed 45 Degrees, What will the Hour and Azimuth then be? Having laid the Thread over the 24th of April, bring the Bead to the Summer Ecliptick, and then carry it to the Parallel of the Altitude 45 Degrees : and then the Thread will cut the Limb at 55 Deg. 15 Min. and so the Hour will be either 41 Min. paft Nine in the Morning, or 19 Min. paft Two in the Afternoon. And the Bead among the Azimuths fhews the Sun's Distance from the South to be 50 Deg. 41 Min.

Note, If the Sun's Altitude be less than that which it hath at fix o'Clock, on any given Day ; then the Operation must be performed among those Parallels above the upper Horizon, the Bead being rectified to the Winter Ecliptick.

There are a great many other Uses of this Quadrant, which I shall omit, and refer you to Collins's Sector upon a Quadrant, wherein it's Defcription and Use, together with those of two other Quadrants, are fully treated of.

The Bead is a little round Leaden or Btafs Shot, with a /mall Hole thro" 1 it, that moves ftiffly up and doivrtt so as to remain at any Point or Part of the Thread of a Plummet fajlened to the Centre of the Quadrant.

The ConftruSiion and Uses Book VII.

Of the Conftru&ion and Uses of Instruments for Navigation.

CHAP. I.

Cy /^ ConflruElion and Use of the Sea-Compass&gt; and Azimuth Compass*

SECTION I.

HE first Figure fhews the Compass Card, whose Limb reprefents the Horizon of the World. It is divided into four times 90 Degrees, and very often but into 32 equal Parts; for the 32 Points, whereof the four principal Points, which are called Cardinal ones, crofs each other at Risht Angles, viz. the North, distinguished by the Flower- de -Luce, the South opposite thereto, and the East and West. Now if each of these Quarters be bifected, we shall have the eight Rhumbs. Again, Bifecting each of these last Spaces, we mall have the eight Semi-Rhumbs. And lastly, Bifecting each of these last Parts, we shall have the fixteen Quarter-Rhumbs. The four Collateral Rhumbs take their Name from the four Piincipal Rhumbs, each afluming the two Names of those that are nigheft them : as, the Rhumb in the Middle, between the North and the East, is called North-East ; that between the South and the East, is called South-East ; that between the South and the West, is called' South- West ; and that in the Middle between the North and the West, is called North- West.

Also every of the eight Semi-Rhumbs afiumes it's Name from the two Rhumbs that be nigheft it ; as that between the North and North-East, is called North North-East ; that be- tween the East and North-East, is called East North-East ; that between the East and South- East, is called East South-East •, and so of others.

Finally, Each of the Quarter-Rhumbs has it's Name compofed of the Rhumbs or Semi- Rhumbs which are nigheft to it, in adding the Word one-fourth after the Name of the Rhumb neaRest to it. For Example; The Quarter-Rhumb neaRest to the North, and next to the North-East, is called North one-fourth North-East ; that which is neaRest the North- East towards the North, is called North-East, one-fourth North ; and so of others, as they appear abbreviated round the Card. Each Quarter-Rhumb contains 11 Deg. 15 Min. the Semi-Rhumbs 22 Deg. 30 Min. and the whole Rhumbs 45 Deg.

The Infide of this Card, which is supposed double, is likewise divided into 32 equal Parts, by a like Number of Radii, denoting the 32 Points, and the Middle thereof, which is glewed upon a Pafteboard, hath a free Motion upon it's Pivot, that so it may be used when the Declination or Variation of the Needle is found. Note, The Outfide of this Card is placed

upon the Limb of the Box.

The second Figure reprefents a piece of Steel in form of a Rhumbus, which ferves for the Needle, and is fattened under the moveable Card with two little Pins, so that one of the ends of the 'longeft Diameter of the said Rhumbs be precifely under the Flower-de-luce. This piece of Steel must be touched by a good Load-ftone ; so that one end may direct itfelf to- wards the North part of the World. The manner of doing which, we have already ftiewn in fpeaking of the Load-ftone, and the Compass. Note, It is not so well to glew the said Needle under the Card, as some do, as otherwise to faften it ; because that caufes a Ruft very contrary to the magnetick Virtue.

The little Figure B, in the middle of the Rhumbus, which is called the Cap of the Needle* is made of Brais, and hollowed into a Conical Form. This Cap is applied to the Center of the Card, and is fattened thereto with Glew.

The third Figure reprefents the whole Compass, whereof A is a round wooden Box, about fix or seven Inches Diameter, and four deep ; (we fometimes make these Boxes square) hb and cc are two Brass Hoops, the greater of which being b b, is fattened to the Sides of the Box at the opposite Places B B. The other Hoop c C is fattened by two other Pivots, at the Places CC, diametrically opposite to the Hoop bb ; and these two Pivots go into Holes made towards the top of another kind of wooden Box, in which the Card is put. And by this means, this last Box, and the two Hoops will, have a very free Motion •, so that when the &lt;*reat Box A is placed flat in a Ship, the letter Box will be always horizontal, and in equili- bria, notwithttanding the Motion of the Ship. In the middle of the Bottom of this last Box, is placed a very ftrait and well pointed brafs Pivot, on which is placed the Cap B of the Card, which Card having a very free Motion, the Flower-de-luce will turn towards the North, and all the other Points towards the other correfpondent Parts of the World. Finally, the Card is covered with a Glass, that so the Wind may have no power on it.

Use of the* Sea-Con, pass.

The Courfe that a Ship must take to fail to a proposed Place, being known by a Sea- Chart, and the Compass placed in the Pilot's Room, so as the two parallel Sides of the square Box to be fixed according to the length of the Ship, that is, parallel to a Line drawn from the Poop to the Prow ; make aCrofs, or other Mark, upon the middle of that Sid'- of the square Box perpendicular to the Ship's length, and the most distant from the Po^p, that so the Stern of the Ship by this means may be directed accordingly.

Example. Departing from the Ifland of Ufhant, upon the Confines of Britany, we defire to fail towards Cape Finijlerre in Galicia. Now in order to do this, we must first fcek (according to the manner hereafter directed) in a Mercator's Chart, the Direction or Courfe of the Ship leading to that Place ; and this we find is between the South- West and the South South-West; 5 that is, the Ship's Courfe must be South- West, one-fourth to the South. Therefore having a fair Wind, turn the Stern of the Ship, so that a Line tending from the South- '- /eft, one-fourth South, exactly anfwers to the Crofs marked upon the middle of the Side of the square Box ; and then we mall have our Defire. And by this means, which is really admirable, we may direct a Ship's Courfe as well in the Night as in the Day, as well being fhut up in a Room in the Ship, as in the open Air, and as well in cloudy Weather as fair ; so that we may al- ways know whether the Ship goes out of her proper Direction.

Of the Variation or Declination of the Needle. It is found by experience, that the touched Needle varies from the true North, that is, the Flower-de-luce does not exactly tend to the North part of the World, but varies there- from, fometimes towards the East, fometimes towards the West, more or less, according to different Times, and at different Places.

About the Year 1 665, the Needle at Paris did not decline or vary at all •, whereas now its Variation is there above 12 Degrees North- weftwardly, Therefore every time a favourable Opportunity offers, you must endeavour to obferve carefully the Variation of the Needle, that so refpect thereto may be had in the fteering of Ships. If, for example, the Variation of the Needle in the Ifland of UJhant, which was the supposed Place of Departure in the abovementioned Example, was 10 Degrees; and if the Ship fhould exactly keep the Courfe of South- West, one- fourth to the South, inftead of arriving at the Cape Finijlerre, it would to another Country 10 Degrees more to the East.

Now to remedy this, you need only remove the Crofs, upon the Side of the Box, fhewing the Rhumb of Direction, more eafterly by the Quantity of the D6grees of the Needle's Va- riation weftwardly ; and so as often as a new Declination or Variation of the Needle be found, the place of the said Crofs must be altered. Note, When the Box is quite round, a Mark must be made against the North and South on the Body of the said Box.

If like wife a VelTel departs from the Sorlings in England, in order to fail to the Ifland of Madeira, you will find by a Sea-Chart that her Courfe must be South South- West ; but if at the fame time the Variation of the Needle be fix Degrees North Easterly, the the Crofs denoted upon the Edge of the Compass must be removed fix Degrees towards the West, in order to direct the Ship according to her true Courfe found in the Chart,

But if a Sea-Compass be used, wherein the Pofition of the Needle may be altered, as that which hath a double Card, the Flower-de-luce of the Card mud be fixed, lb that its Point may fhew the true North ; and then you will have it to alter every time there is a new Varia- tion observed. Now in this Cafe the Crofs upon the Edge of the Compass must not be altered.

It is very necefiary, and principally in long Courfes, for Seamen to make Celeftial Ob- fervations often, in order to have the Variation of the Needle exactly, that the Direction of the VefTel may thereby be truly had, as likewise that they may know where they are, after having efcaped a great Storm, during which they were obliged to leave the true Courfe, and let the Vessel run according as the Wind or Currents drove her.

SECTION II.

Of the Azimuth Compass.

Fig. 4. This Compass is fomething different from the common Sea-Compass before fpoken of.

For upon the round Box, wherein is the Card, is faftened a broad brafs Circle A B, one Semi-circle whereof is divided into 90 equal Parts or Degrees, numbered from the middle of the said Divisions both ways, with 10, 20, &c. to 45 Degrees; which Degrees are also divided into Minutes by Diagonal Lines and Circles : But these graduating Lines are drawn from the opposite part of the Circle, viz. from the Point b, wherein the Index turns in time of Obfervation.

b c is that Index moveable about the Point b, having a Sight ba erected thereon, which moves with a Hinge, that so it may be raifed or laid down, according to necefiity. From the upper part of this Sight, down to the middle of the Index, is faftened a fine Hypothe- nufal Lute- firing, or Thread d e&gt; to give a Shadow upon a Line that is in the middle of the said Index.

Note, The reason of making the Index move on a Pin faftened in b, is, that the Degrees and Divisions may be larger; for now they are as large again as they would have been, if they had been divided from the Center, and the Index made to move thereon.

The abovenamed broad brafs Circle A B, is crofted at Right Angles with two Threads, and from the ends of these Threads are drawn four small black Lines on the In side of the round Box ; also there are four Right Lines drawn at Right Angles to each other on the Card.

This round Box, thus fitted with its Card, graduated Circle, and Index, &c. is to be
hung in the brafs Hoops BB-, and these Hoops are faftened to the great square wooden
Box C C.

The life of the Azimuth Compass in finding the Sun's Magnetic al Azimuth or Amplitude, and

from thence the Variation of the Compass.

There are several ways of finding the Variation of the Needle, as by the rifing and fet- ting of the fame Star, or by the Obfervation of two equal Altitudes of the Star above the Horizon, since the said Star, at each of those Times, will be equally distant from the true Meridian of the World ; or else by a Star's passage over the Meridian.

Buc these Methods are not much used at Sea: First, because the Time wherein the Sun, or a Star, passes over the Meridian, cannot be known precifely enough ; for there is a great deal of Time taken in making Obfervations of the Sun's Altitudes, 'till he is found to have the greateft, that is, his Meridian Altitude.

Secondly, Because the Sun's Declination may be considerably altered, and also the Ship's Latitude between the Times of the two Obfervations of his equal Altitudes above the Ho- rizon, Morning and Evening, or of his Rifing and Setting.

Therefore the Variation of the Compass may much better be found by one Obfervation of the Sun's magnetical Amplitude, or Azimuth. But the Sun's Declination, and the La- titude of the Place the Ship is in, must be known, that so his true Amplitude may be had ; his Altitude must also be given, when the magnetick Azimuth is taken, that so his true Azimuth may be had at that Time also.

Now if the Obfervation be for an Amplitude at Sun-rifing, or an Azimuth before Noon, you must put the Center of the Index be upon the West Point of the Card within the Box, so that the four Lines on the Edge of the Card, and the four Lines on the Infide of the Box, may agree or come together. But if the Obfervation be for the Sun's Amplitude, Setting, or an Azimuth in the Afternoon, then you must turn the Center of the Index right-against the East Point of the Card, and make the Lines within the Box concur with these on the Card. Having thus fitted the Instrument for Obfervation, turn the Index be towards the Sun, 'till the Shadow of the Thread de falls directly upon the Hit of the Sight, and upon the Line that is along the middle of the Index ; then will the inner Edge of the Index cut the Degree and Minute of the Sun's magnetical Azimuth, from the North or South.

But note, that if the Compass being thus placed, the Azimuth be less than 45 Deg. from the South, and the Index be turned towards the Sun, it will then pass off the Divisions of the Limb, and so they become ufelefs as it now Hands : therefore you must turn the Inftru- ment juft a Quarter of the Compass, that is, place the Center of the Index on the North or South Point ot the Card, according as the Sun is from you, and then the Edge thereof will cut the Degree of the Magnetick Azimuth, or Sun's Azimuth from the North, as before.

The Sun's Magnetical Amplitude (that is, the Distance from the East or West Points of the Compass, to that Point in the Horizon whereat the Sun rifes or fets), being observed by this Instrument, the Variation of the Compass may be thus found.

Example. Being out at Sea the 15th Day of May, in the Year 1715, in 45 Degrees of North Latitude, I find from Tables that the Sun's Declination is 19 Deg. North, and his East Amplitude 27 Deg. 25 Min. North. Now I oblerve by the Azimuth Compass, the Sun's Magnetical Amplitude at his rifing and fetting, and find that he rifes between the 6id and 63d Deg. reckoning from the North towards the East part of the Compass, that is, be- tween the 27th and 28th Degrees from the East ; and since in this Cafe the magnetical Am- plitude is equal to the true Amplitude, I conclude that at this Place and Time, the Needle has no Variation.

But if the Sun at his rifing mould have appeared between the 52d and 53d Degrees from the North towards the East, his magnetical Amplitude would then be between %j and 38 Degrees, that is, about 10 Dgrees greater than the true Amplitude: and therefore the Needle would vary about 10 Degrees Nortn- - afterly. If, on the contrary, the magnetical East Amplitude found by the Instrument fhould be less than the true Amplitude, their Dif- ference would mew that the Variation of the Needle is North-Easterly. For if the magne- tical Amplitude be greater than the true Amplitude, this proceeds from hence, that the East part of the Compass is drawn back from the Sun towards the South, and the Flower-de-luce of the Card approaches to the East, and so gives the Variation North-Easterly. The rcafon for the contrary of this is equally evident.

If the true East Amplitude be Southwardly, as likewise the magnetical Amplitude, and this la ft be the greater ; then the Variation of the Needle will be Ivorth West ; and if, on the contrary, the magnetical Amplitude.be less than the true Amplitude, the Variation of the Needle will be North-Easterly, as many Degrees as ate contained in their Difference.

What we have said concerning North- East Amplitudes, must be undcrftood of South- West Amplitudes, and what we have said of South- East Amplitudes, must be undcrftood of North- West Amplitudes.

finally, If Amplitudes are found of different Denominations ; for Example, when Am- plitudes are East, if the true Amplitude be 6 Deg. North, and the magnetical Amplitude 5 Deg. South •, then the Variation, which in this Cafe is North- West, will be greater than the true Amplitude, it being equal to the Sum of the magnetical and true Amplitudes : and so adding them together, we mail have 1 1 Degrees of North- West Variation. Underftand the fame for West Amplitudes.

The Variation of the Compass may likewise be found by the Azimuth ; but then the Sun's Declination, the Latitude of the Place, and his Altitude must be had, that so his true Azi- muth may be found.

CHAP. II.

Of the ConftruSiion and Use of Instrument s for taking the Alti- tudes of the Sun or Stars at Sea.

Of the Sea- Aftrolabe.

THE most common Instrument for taking of Altitudes at Sea is the Aftrolabe, which Fig&gt;5 ; confifts of a brafs Circle, about one Foot in Diameter, and fix or seven Lines in Thick- nefs, that so it may be pretty weighty : there is fometimes likewise a Weight of fix or seven Pounds hung to this Instrument at the Place B, that so when the. Aftrolabe is fufpended by it's Ring A, which ought to be very moveable, the said Instrument may turn any way, and keep a perpendicular Situation during the Motion of the Ship.

The Limb of this Instrument is divided into four times 90 Degrees, and very often into halves, and fourths of Degrees.

It is ahfolutely neceffary, that the Right Line C D, which reprefents the Horizon, be perfectly level, that so the beginning of the Divisions of the Limb of the Instrument may be made therefrom. Now to examine whether this be so or no, you must obferve lome distant Object thro' the Slits or little Holes of the Sights F and G, fattened near the Ends of the Index, freely turning about the Center E, by means of a turned-headed Rivet : I

fay, you must obferve the said distant Objects, in placing the Eye to one of the said Sights for Exurrtple, toG: then if the Aftrolabe be turned about, and the fame Object apoears thro' the other Sight F, without moving the Index, it is a fign the Fiducial Line of the Index is horizontal. But if at the second time of Obfervation, the Index must be raifed or lowered before the Object be efpied thro' the Sights, then the middle Point between the two Pofitions will fhew the true horizontal Line pafTing thro' the Center of the Instrument, which must be verified by several repeated Obfervations, before the Divisions of the Limb are begun to be made, in the Manner as we have elsewhere explained.

Use of the Aftrolabe.

The Use of this Instrument is for obferving the Sun or Stars Altitude above the Hori- zon, or their Zenith Distance. The Manner of effecting which, is thus : Holding the Aftrolabe fufpended by it's Ring, and turning it's Side towards the Sun, move the Index 'till the Sun's Rays pals thro' the Sights F and G ; then the Extremes of the Index will give the Altitude of the Sun in H, upon the divided Limb, from C to F, comprehended between the horizontal Radius EC and the Rays EF of the Sun, because the Instrument in this Situation reprefents a Vertical Circle. Now the Divisions of the Arcs BGor AF, fhew the Sun's Zenith Distance.

The Conjlrufiion of the Ring.

Fig. 6. This Figure reprefents a brafs Ring or Circle, about 9 Inches in Diameter, which it is ne-

cefiary fhould be pretty thick ; that so being weighty, it may keep it's perpendicular Situ- ation better than when it is not so heavy, having the Divisions denoted on the Concave Sur- face thereof. The little Hole C, made thro' the Ring, is 45 Degrees distant from the Point of Sufpenfion B, and is the Center of the Quadrant DE, divided into 90 Degrees, one of whose Radius's C E, is parallel to the Vertical Diameter B H of the Ring, and the other horizontal Radius C D, is perpendicular to the said Vertical Diameter.

Now having found the said horizontal Radius C D very exactly, by fufpending the Ring, &V. Radius's must be drawn from the Center C, to each Degree of the Quadrant D E, and upon the Points wherein the said Radius's cut the Concave Surface of the Ring, the corre- fpondent Numbers of the Degrees of the Quadrant must be graved •, and so the Concave Surface of the Ring, will be divided from F to G. This Divisioning may be first made feparately upon a Plane, and afterwards transferred upon the Concave Surface of the Ring.

This Instrument is reckoned better than the Aftrolabe, because the Divisions of the Degrees upon the Concave Surface are larger in proportion to it's bigness, than those on the Aftrolabe.

The Use of the Ring.

When this Instrument is to be used, you must fufpend it by the Swivel B, and turn it to- wards the Sun A ; so that it's Rays may pass thro' the Hole C. This being done, the little Spot will fall between the horizontal Line C F, and vertical Line CG, upon the Degrees of the Sun's Altitude on the Infide of the Ring, reckoned from F to I.

Of the Quadrant.

Fig. 7. The Instrument of Figure 7, is a Quadrant about one Foot Radius, having it's Limb di-

vided into 90 Degrees, and very often each Degree into every 5th Minute by Diagonals. There are two Sights fixed upon one of the Sides A E, and the Thread to which the Plum- met is faftened, is fixed in the Center A. I shall not here mention the Conftruction of this Instrument, because we have fufficiently fpoken thereof in Chap. V. Book IV.

Now to use this Instrument, you must turn it towards the Sun D, in such manner that it's Rays may pass thro' the Sights A and E, and then the Thread will fall upon the Degrees of the Sun's Altitude on the Limb, in the Point C, reckoned from B to C, and the Com- plement of his Altitude reckoned from E to C.

Of the Fore-Staff, or Crofs-Staff.

Fig. 8. This Instrument confifts of a ftrait square graduated Staff A B, between two and three

Foot in length, and four Crofles or Vanes FF, E E, D D, C C, which flide ftiffly thereon. The first and fhorteft of these Vanes FF, is called the Ten-crofs or Vane, and belongs to that Side of the Staff whereon the Divisions begin at about 3 Degrees from the End A, (whereat the Eye is placed in time of Obfervation) to 10 Degrees. Note, Sometimes the Thirty-crofs E F is so made, as that the Breadth thereof ferves inftead of this Ten-crofs.

The next longer Vane E E, is called the Thirty-crofs, and belongs to that Side of the Staff, whereon the Divisions begin at 10 Degrees, and end at 30 Degrees, and this is called the Thirty-side : Half the Length of the Thirty-vane will reach on this Thirty-side, from 30 Deg. to 23 Deg. 52 Min. and the whole Length from 30 Deg. to 19 Deg. 47 Min.

The next longer Vane DD, is called the Sixty-crofs, and belongs to that Side of the Staff whereon the Divisions begin at 20 Deg. and end at 6oDeg. and is called the Sixty-side. The length of this Crofs will reach on this Sixty-side, from 60 Deg. to 3a Deg.

The longeft Crofs CC, is called the Ninety-crofs, and belongs to that Side whereon the Divisions begin at 30 Degrees, and end at 90 Degrees, and is called the Ninety-side of the Staff: the Degrees on the feverai Sides of the Staff, are numbered with their Complements to go Degrees in final 1 Figures.

This Staff may be graduated Geometrically thus : Upon a Table, or on a large Paper Fig. 9. parted fmoothly upon some Plane, draw the Line FG, the length of the Staff to be gradua- ted, and on F and G raife the Perpendiculars FC and GD; upon which lay off the Length you intend for the half Length of one of the four Croffes, from F to C, and G to D, and draw the Line C D reprefenting the Staff to be graduated. This being done, about the Center F, with the Semidiarneter FG or C D, defenbe an eighth part of a Circle, which divide into 90 equal Parts. Then if Right Lines be drawn from the Point F, to each of the aforsaid Divisions, these Lines will divide the Line CD, as the Staff ought to be graduated.

But if this Staff is to be graduated by the Table of natural Tangents, you muff firfl obferve, that the Graduations are only the natural Co-tangents of half Arcs, the half Crofs being Radius ; therefore divide the length of the half Crofs into 1000 equal Parts, or 1 00000 if poffible, according to the Radius of the Tables of natural Tangents : then take from this the Co-tangents, as you find them in the Table, and prick them from F fucceffively, and your Staff will be graduated for that Vane. So do for the Rest severally. If it be requi- red to prick down the 80th Degree, the half of 80 is 40, and the natural Co-tangent of 40 Deg. is 1 191 75, which take from the Scale or half Crofs so divided, and prick it from F to P, and that will be the Point for 80 Degrees, &V. So again, To put on the 64th De- gree, half of 64 is 32, and its Co-tangent is 160033, which take from the divided Croft (prolonged), prick it from E, and you will have the 64th Degree.

Now that the Crofs CD, when transferred to B, lhall make the Angles C A D eighty Fj - e lQ Degrees, is demonftrable thus: Since CB the half Crofs is Radius, and A B is by Con- ftru&ion the Tangent of 50 Deg. the Angle ACB is 50 Degrees ; and since the Triangle ABC is Right Angled, the Angle BAC will be 40 Degrees: but the Angle DACis double the Angle B A C •, therefore the Angle DAC is 80 Degrees, and the Point B the true Point on the Staff for 80 Degrees. The fame Demonftration holds, let the Crofs be what it will.

If the Staff be to be graduated by any Diagonal Scale, measure half the Length of the Vane by the Scale, and fay, As the Radius of the Tables 1 00000, is to the Meafure of half the Crofs, So is the natural Co-tangent of the half any Number of Degrees defired to be pricked on the Staff, to the Space between the Center of the Staff F, and the Point for the Degrees fought.

For Example •, Suppose half the Length of the Vane, measured on a Diagonal Scale, be 945 •, to find what Number must be taken off the Diagonal Scale for the 80th Degree. The Co tangent of 40 Degrees (half of 80) is 1191753, which being multiplied by 945, and divided by Radius, gives 11 261. And this being taken from the Diagonal Scale, w.ill give the Degrees defired.

The Use of the Fore-Staff. The chief Use of this Instrument, is to take the Altitude of the Sun or Stars, or the Distance of two Stars ; and the Ten, Thirty, Sixty and Ninety Croffes are to be used, according as the Altitude is greater or leffer j that is, if it be less than 10 Degrees, the Ten Crofs must be used •, if above 10, but less than 30 Degrees, the Thirty Crofs must be used •, and if the Altitude be judged to be above 30, but less than 60 Degrees, the Sixty Crofs must be used. But when Altitudes are greater than 60 Degrees, this Instrument is not fo convenient as others.

To obferve an Altitude. Place the flat End of the Staff to the outfide of your Eye, as near the Eye as you can, Fig , N and look at the upper End b of the Crofs for the Center of the Sun or Star, and at the lower End a for the Horizon. But if you fee the Sky inflead of the Horizon, flide the Crofs a little nearer to your Eye ; and if you fee the Sea inflead of the Horizon, move the Crofs a little further from your Eye, and so continue moving the Crofs till you fee exactly the Sun or Star's Center by the top of the Crofs b[ and the Horizon by the bottom thereof a. Then the Degrees and Minutes cut by the inner Edge c of the Crofs, upon the Side of the Staff peculiar to the Crofs you ufe, is the Altitude of the Sun or Star : But if it be the Meridian Altitude you are to find, you must continue your Obfervation as long as you find the Altitude increafe, ftill moving the Crofs nearer to your Eye j but when you per- ceive the Altitude is diminished, forbear any farther Obfervation, and do not alter your Crofs •, but as it (lands, count the Degrees and Minutes on the Side proper to the Crofs, and you will have the Meridian Altitude required, as also the Zenith Distance, by fub-

The ConftrucJion and Uses of the Staff the observed drafting the said Altitude from 90 Degrees, if it be not graduated on the Staff. To which Zenith Distance add the Minutes allowed for the Height of your Eye above the Surface of the Sea, according to the little Table in the Margin, or fubftracl it from the Altitude, and then you will have the true Zenith Distance and Altitude.

If it be hazy or fomewhat thick Weather, the Fore-Staff may be used as above-, but if the Sun fhines out, the upper Limb of the Sun must be either observed, and afterwards his Semidiameter mult be fubftra&ed from the Altitude found, or else a coloured Glass on the top of the Crofs must be used, to defend the Sight from the Splendor of the Sun.

To obferve the Distance or two Stars, or the Moon's Distance from a Star, place the Staff's flat end to the Eye, as before directed, and looking to both ends a and b of the Crofs, move it nearer or farther from the Eye, 'till you can fee the two Stars, the one on one end, and the other on the other end of the Crofs. Then fee what De- grees and Minutes are cut by the Crofs on the side proper to that Vane in life j and those Degrees fliew Star's Distance.

But that there may be no Miftake in placing the Staff to the Eye, which is the greateft Difficulty in the Use of this Instrument : First, before Obfervation, put on the Sixty-crofs, and place it to 30 Degrees on its proper Side, and also the Ninety-crofs, Aiding to it 30 Degrees likewise on his Right Side : this being done, place the end of the Staff to the corner of your Eye, moving it fomething higher or lower about the Eye, 'till you fee the upper ends of the two Croffes at once exactly in a Right Line, and also their lower ends ; and that is the true Place of your Staff in Time of Obfer- vation.

If the Sun's Altitude is to be observed backwards by this In- ftrument, you must have an horizontal Vane to fix upon the Center or Eye-end of the Crofs, as also a Shoe of Brass for a Sight Vane, to fit on to the end of any of the Croffes ; then when you would obferve, having put on the horizontal Vane, and fixed the Shoe to the end of a convenient Crofs, turn your back to the Sun, and looking through the Sight in the brafs Shoe, lift the end of the Staff up or down, 'till the Shadow made by the upper end of the Crofs falls upon the flit in the Horizon-Vane, and at the fame time you can fee the Horizon through the Horizon- Vane. Then the Degrees and Minutes cut by the Crofs on the proper Side, are the Alti- tude. But if there be fixed a Lens, or small double Convex-Glass, to the upper end of the Vane, to contract the Sun-beams, and caft a small bright Spot on the Horizon-Vane, this will be found more convenient than the Shadow, which is commonly imperfect and double.

Of the Englijh Quadrant, or Back-Staff.

This Instrument is commonly made of Pear-Tree, and confifts of three Vanes A, B, C, and two Arcs. The Vane at A is called the Horizon-Vane, that at B the Shade- Vane, because it gives the Shadow upon the Horizon- Vane in Time of Obfervation, and that at C the Sight- Vane, because in Time of Obfervation it is placed at the Eye. The lelser Arc DE is the Sixty Arc, and that marked F G is the Thirty Arc, both of which toge- ther make 90 Degrees, but they are of different Radius's. The Sixty Arc D E is divided into 60 Degrees, commonly by every five, but fometimes by fingle Degrees. In Time of Obfervation, the Shadow- Vane is placed upon this Arc always to an even Degree.

The Thirty Arc GF, is divided into 30 Degrees, and each Degree into Minutes by Dia- gonal Lines, and Concentrick Arcs. The Manner of doing which, I have already laid down elsewhere.

The Use of the EngliJJj Quadrant. If the Sun's Altitude be to be taken by this Instrument, you must put the Horizon- Vane upon the upper End or Center A of the Quadrant, the Shade- Vane upon the Sixty Arc D E, to some Number of Degrees less than you judge the Co-altitudes will be by 10 or 15 Degrees, and the Sight- Vane upon the Thirty Arc F G. This being done, lift up the Quadrant, with your Back towards the Sun, and look through the small Hole in the Sight- Vane C-, and so raife or lower the Quadrant 'till the Shadow of the upper Edge of the Shade- Vane B falls upon the upper Edge of the flit in the Horizon-Vane A : if then at the fame time the Horizon appears thro' the said flit, the Obfervation is finifhed ; but if the Sea appears inftead of the Horizon, then remove the Sight Vane lower towards F; but if the Sky appears inftead of the Horizon, then Aide the Sight- Vane a little higher: and so con- tinue removing the Sight- Vane, 'till the Horizon appears thro' the Ait of the Horizon- Vane,

Chap. 2. of biftruments for taking Altitudes, &c. 2,05

Vane, and the Shadow of the Shade- Vane falls at the fame time on the said Slit of the Ho- rizon-Vane. This being done, fee how many Degrees and Minutes are cut by the Edge of the Sight- Vane C, which anfwers to the Sight-Hole, and to them add the Degrees that are cut by the upper Edge of the Shade- Vane, and the Sum is the Zenith Distance or Comple- ment of the Altitude. But to find the Sun's Meridian or greateft Altitude on any Day, you must continue the Obfervation as long as the Altitude be found to increafe, which you will perceive, by having the Sea appear inftead of the Horizon, removing the Sight- Vane lower; but when you perceive the Sky appear inftead of the Horizon, the Altitude is dimi- nifhed: therefore defift from farther Obfervation at that Time, and add the Degrees upon the Sixty Arc to the Degrees and Minutes upon the Thirty Arc, the Sum is the Zenith Distance, or Co-altitude of the Sun's upper Limb.

And because it is the Zenith Distance or vJo-altitude of the upper Limb of the Sun, that is aiven by the Quadrant, when obferving by the upper Edge of the Shade-Vane, as it is cuftomary to do, and not the Center ; you must add 16 Min. the Sun's Semi-diameter, to that which is produced by your Obfervation, and the Sum is the true Zenith Distance of the Sun's Center. But if you obferve by the lower part of the Shadow of the Shade- Vane, then the lower Limb of the Sun gives the Shadow ; and therefore you must fubftract 16 Min. from what the Instrument gives : but confidering the Height of the Obfervator above the Surface of the Sea, which is commonly between ,6 and 20 Feet, you may take five or fix Minutes from the 16 Minutes, and make the allowance but 10 Min. or 12 Min. to be added inftead of 16 Min.

Note also, The Refraction of the Sun or Stars caufes them to appear higher than they are ; therefore after having made your Obfervation, you must find the convenient Refraction, and fubftract it from your Altitude, or add it to the Zenith Distance, in order to have the true Altitude or Zenith Distance.

If a Lens or double Convex-Glass be fixed in the Shade- Vane, which contracts the Rays of Light, and cafts them in a imall bright Spot on the Slit of the Horizon-Vane inftead of a Shade, this will be an Improvement to the Instrument if the Glass be well fixed ; for then it may be used in hazy Weather, and that so thick an Haze, that an Obfervation can hardly be made with the FoRestaff: also in clear Weather the Spot will be more defined than the Shadow, which at beft is not terminated.

Of the Semi- circle for taking Altitudes at Sea. This Semi-circle is about one Foot in Diameter, and the Limb thereof is divided into 90 Fig. 13. Degrees only, each of which are quartered for 15 Min. At A and B are two Sights fixed to the Extremes of the Diameter, and another at C, so adjuftcd as to Aide on the Limb of the Semi-circle, that so the Sun's Rays may pass thro' it when the Instrument is using.

The Use of the Semi- circle.

If an Altitude is to be taken forwards by this Instrument, the Eye must be placed at the Sight A, and then you must look thro' the Sights A and B at the Horizon, and Aide the Sight C on the Limb, 'till the Sun's Rays passing thro' it, likewise come thro' the Sight A to the Eye. This being done, the Degrees of the Arc between B and C s fhew the Sun's Al- titude.

But if the Sun's Altitude is to be taken backwards, which is the beft way, because of its Splendor offending the Eye, you must place the Eye to B, and looking thro' the Sights B and A, at the Horizon, you must flide the Sight C along the Limb, 'till the Sun's Rays coming thro' it, fall upon the Sight A, and then the Arc B C will be the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon, as before.

The Meridian Altitude or Zenith Diflance of the Sun or Stars being found by Obfervation, to find

the Latitude of the Place.

Having observed with some one of the Instruments before fpoken of, the Meridian Alti- tude or Zenith Distance of the Sun, or some Star, feek the Sun's Declination the Day of Obfervation : if it be North, fubftract the Sun's Declination found from the Sun's Altitude, and you will have the Height of the Equinoctial above the Horizon, and this Fleight taken from 90 Degrees, and you will have the Latitude of the Place. But if the Zenith Distance be added to the Declination of the Sun or Star, the Sum will be the Latitude of the Place.

Again, If the Sun or Star have South Declination, you must add the observed Altitude to the Declination, and the Sum will be the Height of the Equinoctial above the Horizon, which taken from 90 Degrees, and the Latitude will be had. But if the Zenith Distance be taken from the Declination, the Remainder will be the Latitude of the Place.

Laftly, If the Sun has no Declination, his Altitude taken from 90 Degrees, will be the Latitude •, and so in this Cafe the Zenith Distance itfelf is the Latitude.

Example. The Sun being in the first Degree of Cancer, his Meridian Altitude at Paris is 64 Deg. 30 Min. Zenith Distance 25 Deg. 30 Min. his Declination 23 Deg. 30 Min. North. Now if 23 Deg. 30 Min. be taken from 64 Deg. 30 Min. the Remainder is 41 Deg. for the Altitude of the Equinoctial, and so the Complement of 41 Deg. to 90 Peg. is 49 Deg. the

Height of the Pole or Latitude of Paris •, but if the Zenith Distance 25Deg. 30 Min. be added to the Sun's Declination 23 Deg. 30 Min. the Sum will be 49 Deg. the Latitude of Paris as before.

Again, Suppose the 22d of December (New Stile) the Sun's Meridian Altitude at Paris is observed 17 Deg. 30 Min. and his Zenith Distance 72 Deg. 30 Min. his Declination is then 23 Deg. 30 Min. South, which added to 17 Deg. 30 Min. "and the Sum is 41 D?g. whose Complement 49 Deg. is the Latitude of Paris. Again, If from the Zenith Dithance 72 Deg. 30 Min. be taken the Declination, the Remainder will be 49 Deg. the Latitude of Paris, as before.

CHAP. III.

Of the Conftruttion and Uses of the Sinecal Quadrant.

Platen. nr 1 ^^ Instrument is compofed of several Quadrants, having the fame Center A, and

Fjg 1. X several parallel ftrait Lines croffing each other at Right Angles, both Quadrants and

Right Lines being equally distant from each other. Now one of these Quadrants, as BC,

may be taken for a quarter or fourth part of any great Circle of the Sphere, and principally

for a fourth Part of the Horizon and the Meridian.

If the Quadrant BC be taken for one-fourth part of the Horizon, either of the Sides, as A B, may reprefent the Meridian, that is, the Line of North and South. And then the other Side AC, being at Right Angles with the Meridian, will reprefent the Line of East and West. All the other Lines parallel to A B are also Meridians, and all those parallel to the Side AC, are East and West Lines.

The aforsaid Quadrant is first divided into eight equal Parts by seven Radius's drawn from the Center A, which reprefent the eight Points of the Compass contained in one- fourth of the Horizon, each of which is 1 1 Deg. 15 Min. the Arc BC is likewile divided into 90 Degrees, and each Degree divided into 12 Minutes, by means of Diagonals, drawn from Degree to Degree, and fix Concentrick Circles. There is likewise a Thread, as A L, fixed to the Center A, which being put over any Degree of the Quadrant, ferves to divide the Horizon as is neceffary. The Conftruction of the Rest of this Instrument, is enough ma- nifeft from the Figure thereof.

The Use of the Sinecal Quadrant.

There are formed Triangles upon this Instrument similar to those made by a Ship's Way with the Meridians and Parallels, and the Sides of these Triangles are measured by the equal Intervals between the Concentrick Quadrants, and the Lines N and S, E and O.

Thefe Circles and Lines are distinguished, by marking every fifth with broader Lines than the others ; so that if every Interval be taken for one League, there will be five Leagues from one broad Line to the other ; and if every Interval be taken for four Leagues, then there will be twenty Leagues, which make a Sea Degree, from one broad Line to the other.

Let us suppose, for example, that a Ship has failed 150 Leagues North-East, one-fourth North, which is the third Point, and makes an Angle of 33 Deg. 45 Min. with the North part of the Meridian. Now we have two things given, viz. the Courfe, and Distance failed, by which a Triangle may be found on this Instrument similar to that made by the Ship's Courfe, and her Latitude and Longitude ; and so the other unknown Parts of the Triangle found. And this is done thus :

Let the Center A reprefent the Place of Departure, and count, by means of the Concen- trick Arcs, along the Point that the Ship failed on, as AD, 150 Leagues from A toD; then the Point D will be the Place the Ship is arrived at, which note with a Pin. This being done, let DE be parallel to the Side- AC, and then there will be formed a Right- angled Triangle A ED, similar to that made by the Ship's Courfe, difference of Latitude and Longitude: the Side A E of this Triangle gives 125 Leagues for the difference of Latitude Northwards, which make 6 Deg. 15 Min. reckoning 20 Leagues to a Degree, and one League for three Minutes. And lastly, the Side ED will give 83 leffer Leagues to- wards the East, which being reduced in the manner hereafter fhewn, will give the difference of Longitude, and so the whole Triangle will be known.

Note, We call lefler Leagues those that anfwer to the Parallels of Latitude between the Equator and the Poles, which continually decreafe the nearer they are to the Pole, and con- fequently also the Degrees of Longitude ; and therefore the nearer a Ship fails to either of the Poles, the less way must fhe make to alter her difference ot Longitude any determinate Number of Degrees.

Since the Center A always reprefents the Place of departure, it is manifest that when the Point D of arrival is found, be it in what manner foever, all the Parts of the Triangle AED will afterwards be eafily determined.

If the Sinecal Quadrant be taken for a fourth part of the Meridian, one Side thereof, as A B, may be taken for the common Radius of the Meridian, and the Equator; and the other side AC, will then be half the Axis of the World. The Degrees of the Circumference BC, will reprefent the Degrees' of Latitude, and the Parallels to the Side A ±J perpendi- cular to AC, affumed from every Point of Latitude to the Axis A C, will be the Radius's of the Parallels of Latitude, as likewise the Sine-Compkments of those Latitudes.

If, for Example, it be required to find how many Degrees of Longitude 83 lefTer Leagues make in the Parallel of 48 Deg. you mud firfb exctnd a Thread from the Center A, over the 48th Dig. of Latitude on the Circumference ; and keeping it there, count the 83 Leagues proposed on the Side A B, beginning at the Center A. Thefe will terminate at H, in al- lowing every small Interval four Leagues, and the Interval between the broad Lines twenty Leagues. This being done, if the Parallel H G be traced out from the Point H to the Thread, the part AG of the Thread, (hews that 125 greater Leagues, or the equinoctial Leaoues, makes 6 Deg. 15 Mm. in allowing 20 Leagues to a Degree, and three Minutes for one League-, and therefore the 83 lefTer L agues AH, which make the difference of Lon- gitude of the supposed Courfe, and which are equal to the Radius of the Parallel G I, make 6 Dtg. 15 Min. of the said Parallel.

Let it be required, for a second example, to reduce 100 lefTer Leagues into Degrees of Longitude on the Parallel of 60 Degrees. Having first extended the Thread from the Center A over the 60th Degree on the Circumference, count the 100 Leagues of Longitude on the Side AB, and the Parallel terminating thereon being directed to the Thread, the part of the Thread affumed from the Center, fhews that 200 Leagues under the Equator make 10 Degrees •, that is, 100 Leagues in the Parallel of 60 Degrees make 10 Degrees of Longitude, since every Degree of a great Circle is double to any Degree of the Parallel of 60 Degrees.

On one Side of this Instrument is put a Scale, called a Scale of Crofs Latitudes, whose Construction and Division is the fame as that of the Meridian Line of Mercator's Chart, of which we fhail fpeak by and by. The Use of this Scale is to find a mean Parallel between that of Departure and that of Arrival.

When a Ship has failed on an oblique Courfe, that is, neither exactly North, South, Eafl, or West-, thele Courll-s, besides the North and South greater Leagues, give lejfer Leagues eaftwardly and weft hardly, which must be reduced to Degrees of Longitude. L.ut these Leagues were made neither upon the Parallel of Departure, nor upon that of Arrival -, for they were made upon all the Parallels between those of Departure and Arrival, and are all unequal between thcmfelves, and conlequently we are necefiitat d to find a mean proportional Parallel between that of Departure and that of Arrival, which for this realon is called a mean Parallel, and ferves to reduce Leagues made in failing a-crofs divers Parallels, into Degrees and Minutes of the Equator.

Now there are several ways of finding such a mean Parallel ; but I shall only fpeak of that here, which is done by means of the Scale of increafed Latitude, without Calculation, and is thus : Let it be required, for example, to find a mean Parallel between that of 40 Deg. and that of 60 Deg.

Take, by means of a Pair of CompafTes, the middle between the 40th and 60th Deg. upon this Scale, and the said middle Point will terminate against the 51ft Deg. which confequently will be the mean Parallel fought.

Note, Because this Scale is in two Lines, you must take the Diflance from 40 Deg. of La- titude to 45 Deg. which is on one Side, and lay it off upon some feparatc Right-Line. This being done, you must take the Diflance from 45 D^g. to 60 Deg. which is on the other Side, and join these two Spaces together-, then half of these two Lines being taken between your CompafTes, you must let one Eoot upon the Number 60, and the other Point will fall upon 51 Deg. which will be the mean Parallel fought. After which, it will be eafy to reduce the Leagues failed Eastwardly into Degrees of Longitude, by the Sinecal Quadrant, confidered as a quarter of the Meridian, in the manner as we have laid down in the two Examples abovementioned.

Of Mercator's Charts.

This Figure reprefents a Mercator's Chart. But before we give the Conftrudtion and $■ 2&lt; Uses thereof, it is neceffary to obferve that when a Ship fails upon any determinate Point of the Compals, fhe always makes the fame Angle with all the Meridians fhe pafTes over upon the Surface of the Terraqueous Globe.

If a Ship fails North and South, fhe makes an infinitely acute Angle with the Meridian me defcribes, that i?, fhe runs parallel to it, or rather fails upon it.

If a Ship fails due East and West, fhe cuts all the Meridians at Right Angles ; for fhe either defcribes the Equator, or some lefTer Circle which is parallel thereto. But if her Courfe be on any Point between the North and East, North and West, Sooth and East, or South and VYeu. then fhe will not defcribe a Circle ; because a Circle drawn oblique to the

Meridians, will cut all of them at unequal Angles, which the Ship must not do while fhe fails upon any determinate Point, unlets North and South, or East and West •, therefore fhe describes a Curve, not circular, whole efiential Property is to cut all the Meridians at the fame Angle. And this is called a Loxodromick Curve, or only Loxodromy, and is a kind of Spiral, making an Infinity of Revolutions towards a certain Point, which is the Pole, and every Turn thereof approaches nigher and nigher thereto. A Ship's Courfe then, except the two first abovenamed, is always a Loxodromick Curve, and is the Hypothenufe of a Right-angled fpherical Triangle, whose two other Sides are the Ship's Way in Lon- gitude and Latitude. Now we have the Latitude commonly given by Oblervation, and the Loxodromick Angle by the Compass ; therefore by Trigonometry we may find the Hypothe- nufe, or the Way that the Ship has failed, &c.

But because the Calculation of a Ship's Way by means of the Loxodromick Curve is troublefome, therefore the Ancients fought after some Method whereby a Ship's Way might be a ftrait Line, which might nearly prcferve the Property of the Loxodromick Curve, which is, to cut all the Meridians under the fame Angle. But they found this abfolutely im- poffible upon the account of the Meridians not being parallel between themfelves, as in reality they are not. And therefore they supposed the Meridians to be parallel ftrait Lines ; and so from this fuppofition it follows, that the Degrees of Longitude unequally distanr. from the Equator, are of the fame bigness •, whereas they really always diminish from the Equator, in a certain known Proportion, which is as Radius is to the Sine-Complement of the Latitude. But to retrieve this Error, they have supposed the Degrees of Latitude, which by the Nature of the Sphere are every where equal, to be augmented in the fame Proportion as the Degrees of Longitude diminish. And so the Inequality which ought to be in the Degrees of Longitude of different Parallels, is thrown upon the Degrees of La- titude in the manner we are going to lay down.

Now Charts made in this manner are called Mercator'% Charts, because Mercator was the first that made them •, and they are commonly efteemed the beft : for by the Experience of several Ages, it is found that Seamen ought to have vtry fimple Charts, wherein the Meridians, Parallels, and Rhumb-Lines, may be reprefented by ftrait Lines, that so they may prick down their Courfes eafily.

43688638^

CHAP. IV

Of the ConjlruSiion and Uses of Mercator'.? Charts.

Fig. 2. I F the Degrees of Latitude are to be augmented as much as those of Longitude are

J|[ found enlarged by making them equal to the Degrees of the Equinoctial, the Secants must be used, which increafe in the fame Proportion as the Sine-Complements of the Lati- tudes (which ought to reprefent the Degrees of Longitude) have been increafed, by making them equal to the Radius of the Equator, because of the Parallelifm of the Meridians: for the Sine- Complement of an Arc is to Radius, as Radius is to the Secant of that Arc.

As, afiuming for one Degree of the Equator, and for the first Degree of Latitude, the whole Radius, or some aliquot part thereof; take for the 2d Degree of Latitude, the Secant of one Degree, or a similar aliquot part of this Secant ; and for the 3d Degree of Latitude, take the Secant of two Degrees, or the similar aliquot part thereof, and so on.

When a Chart is to be made large, you must take, for 30 Minutes of Latitude, and 30 Minutes of the Equator, the Radius of a Circle or some aliquot part thereof, for one Degree of Latitude. This being done, you must add continually the Secant of 30 Min. for 1 '- Degree of Latitude, the Secant of 1 Degree for 2 Degrees of Latitude, the Secant of 1^ Degree for 21 Degrees of Latitude, or their similar aliquot parts; and so proceed on. In doing of which, we use a Scale of equal parts, from which the Secants as they are found in Tables are taken off, by taking away some of the last Figures.

In these Charts the Scale is changed, according as the Latitude is; as, for example, if a Ship fails between the 40th and 50th Parallel of Latitude, the Degrees of the Meridians be- tween those two Parallels will ferve for a Scale to measure the Ship's Way ; whence it fol- lows, that there are fewer Leagues on the Parallels, the nearer they are to the Poles, because they are measured by a Magnitude likewise continually increafing from the Equator towards the Poles.

If, for example, a Chart of this kind be to be drawn from the the 40th Degree of North Latitude to the 50th, and from the 6th Degree of Longitude to the 18th: First draw the Line A B, reprefenting the 40th Parallel to the Equator, which divide into twelve equal Parts, for the 12 Degrees of Longitude, which the Chart is to contain. Tins being done, take a Sector or Scale, one hundred Parts whereof are equal to each of these Degrees of Longi- tude, and at the Points A and B raife two Perpendiculars to A 13, which will reprefent two parallel Meridians, and must be divided by the continual Addition of Secants. ,As, for the Distance from 40 Deg. to 41 Deg. of Latitude, take 131 f equal Parts from your Scale, which is the Secant of 40 Deg. 30 Min. For the Distance from 41 Deg. to 42 Deg. take J03 x. equal Parts from your Scale, which is the Secant of 41 Deg. 30 Min. For the Di- ftance from 42 Deg. to 43 Deg. take 136, which is the Secant of 42 Deg. ^o Min. and fo on to the last Degree of your Chart, which will be 154 equal Parts, viz. the Secant of 49 I&gt;g. 30 Min. and" will give the Distance from 49 Deg. of Latitude to 50 Deg. and by this means the Degrees of Latitude will be augmented in the fame Proportion as the Degrees of Longitude on the Globe do really decreafe.

Having divided the Meridians, you may place the Card upon the Chart, for doing of which, ehufe a convenient Place towards the Middle thereof, as the Point R, about which, as a Center, defcribe a Circle so big that it's Circumference may be divided into 32 equal Parts, for the 32 Points of the Com pais. Then having drawn a Line towards the Top of the Chart, pirallel to the two divided Meridians, this will be the North Rhumb, and upon it a Flower- de-Luce must be put, that thereby all the other Rhumbs or Points may be known, the princi- pal of which ought to be distinguished from the others by broader Lines.

After this, all the Towns, Ports, Iflands, Coafts, Sands, Rocks, i£c. which form the Chart, must be laid down upon the fame, according to their true Latitudes and Longitudes. And if the Chart be large, there may several Cards be placed thereon, always with their North and South Lines parallel between themfclvts.

The Use of Mercator'j Charts,

The chief Use of a Sea-Chart, is to find the Point of Departure therein, the Point ar- rived at, the Courfe, the Distance failed, the Longitude and the Latitude, as we shall now explain by some Examples.

Example I. Suppose a Ship is to fail from the Ifiand de OueJJant, in 48 Deg. 30 Min. of North Latitude, and 13 Deg. 30 Min. of Longitude, to Cape Finijler in Galicia, which is in 43 Deg. of Latitude, and 8 Deg. of Longitude. Now the Point of the Compass the Ship must keep to, as also the Distance between the said two Places is required. In order to do this, you must imagine a Line drawn from the Ifiand de OueJJant to Cape Finijler., and with a Pair of Compafles examine what Point on the Chart that Line is parallel to, and this Point, which is South-West, one-fourth South, is that which the Ship must fail on.

But to find the Distance of the two Places, take between your Compafles the Extent of live Degrees on the Meridian against the beforenamed Courfe, that is, from the 43d Deg* to the 48th •, and this will be a Scale of 100 Leagues. This being done, fet one Foot of your Compafles thus opened upon the Ifiand de OueJJant, and the other Foot upon the occult Line tending to Cape Finijler, making a little Mark thereon ; and this Extent of the Com- pafles will give 100 Leagues of Distance. Then take the Distance from the aforsaid Mark to Cape Finijler between your Compafles, and placing one Foot upon the 43d Deg. of the Meridian, and the other Foot will fall upon 44 Deg. 45 Min. which amounts to 35 Leagues \ and confequently the whole Distance between Cape Finijler and the Ifland de OueJJant is 135 Leagues.

Example IT. A Ship failing from the Ifland de OueJJant South-West, one-fourth South, to- wards Cape Finijler, and the Mafter-Pilot having examined the Force of the Wind, and the Number of Sails fyrcad, and knowing by experience the Swiftnefs of his Ship, has eftimated her Way to have been 50 Leagues in 20 Hours. Now to find the Point upon the Chart wherein the Ship is, he must take the Extent of 2 \ Degrees, equivalent to 50 Leagues, between his Compafles, upon the Meridian, from the 46th Deg. to the 48 f Deg. This being done, if one Foot of the Compafles thus opened be fet upon the Place of Departure, the other Foot will fall upon the Point T, the Place wherein the Ship is, on the Line of the Ship's Way. But if the Longitude and Latitude of the Point T, or Place wherein the Ship is, be fought, he must place one Foot of the Compafles upon the Point T, and the other upon the neaRest Parallel, and then conduct the Compafles thus opened perpendicu- larly along the Parallel to the Meridian and the Degree thereof whereat the Point of the Com- pafles comes to, will be the Latitude of the Point T. And to find the Longitude of this Point, he must fet one Foot of the Compafles therein, and the other upon the neaRest Me- ridian. Then if this Foot be Aid along the Meridian (so that a Line joining the two Points be always parallel to itlelf) to the divided Parallel, he will have, upon that Parallel, the Longitude of the Point T.

Because Meridians and Parallels are not drawn a-crofs the Chart, to the end that the Rhumb-Lines may not be con fu fed, therefore you may use a Ruler, which will produce the fame Effect.

Example III. The Courfe being given, and the Latitude by Obfervation ; to find the Distance failed, and to prick down the Place of the Ship upon the Chart. Suppose a Ship departed from the Ifland de OueJJant is arrived to a Place whose Latitude, by Obfervation, is found to be 46 Degrees •, take, between your Compafles, the Distance from the 46th Degree of the Meridian to the 48 f, which is the Latitude of the Place of Departure, over which 48 ' Degree and the Ifland de OueJJant having laid a Ruler, Aide one Foot of the -Compafles thus opened along the Side of this Ruler, 'till the other Foot interiecls the Line of the Ship's Way ; then the Point of Interferon S will be that whereat the Ship was at the Time of Obfervation. Now to find the Distance failed, you must extend the Compafifes from this Point S to the Place of Departure, and lay off this Extent upon the Meridian, which will reach from the 46th Degree to the 49th ; and confequently the Di- ftance failed will be 60 Leagues, allowing 20 Leagues to a Degree.

Example IV. The Latitude and Longitude of a Place being given, to fjnd that Place in the Chart. Having placed one Foot of a Sea-Chart Compass upon the known Degree of La- titude, and the other upon the nigheft Parallel, you must place with your other Hand one Foot of another Pair of Compasses upon the known Degree of Longitude on the Meridian, and the other Foot upon the neaRest Meridian •, and then Aide both these Pair of Compafles until their two Points meet each other : for then the Point of Concourfe will be that fought. This Operation is very much used by Seamen ; for the Point where they are, being first found by Calculation, or the Sinecal Quadrant, they can by this means prick down the Place of the Ship upon the Chart, and so it will be eafy for them to find what Courfe the Ship must fteer to continue on her Voyage.

Equinoctial-Dial one parallel to the Equiparallel to a Vertical Circle ; and so of others.

There are two iorts of Styles placed on the Surfaces of Dials ; one is called a Right Style, which is a pointed Iron-Rod, that fhews the Hour or Part on a Dial by the Shadow of its Extremity •, and the other is called an oblique or inclined Style, or else the Axis, which fhews the Time of Day upon a Dial by the Shadow of the whole Length thereof.

The Extremity of the right Style of any Dial, reprefents the Center of the World and Equator, and the Plane of a Dial is supposed to be as far distant from the Center of the Earth, as is the Length of the right Style. For because the Sun's Distance from the Center of the Earth is so great, and the Distance of any Point in the Earth's Superficies from the Center is so small, compared with the Sun's Distance ; therefore any Point on the Earth's Surface may without any fenfible Error be taken for its Center : and so the Extremity of the Style of any Dial may be taken for the Center of the Earth ; and a Line parallel to the Axis of the World, which passes thro' the Extremity of the Style, may be confidered as the Axis of the World.

The Hour-Lines, which are drawn upon Dial-Planes, are the Interferons of the said Planes made by the Hour-Circles of the Sphere.

The Center of a Dial, is the Interfection of its Surface with the Axis of the Dial palling thro' the Extremity of the Style parallel to the Axis of the World ; and in this Center all the Hour-Lines meet each other.

All Dial-Planes may have Centers, except East, West, and Polar ones •, for on these the Hour- Lines are all parallel between themfelves.

The Vertical Line of a Dial- Plane, is a Pependicular drawn from the Extremity of the Style to the Foot thereof ; but the Vertical Line of the Place wherein the Dial is, is a right Line perpendicular to the Horizon drawn thro' the Extremity of the Style.

Dials have like wife two Meridians •, one of which is the fubftylar Line or proper Meri- dian of the Dial-Plane, because its Circle passes thro' the Vertical Line of the Dial-Plane-, and the other, which is the Meridian of the Place, hath its Meridian Circle passing thro' the Vertical Line of the Place.

When a Dial declines neither to the East or West, the fubftylar Line, or Meridian of the Plane, coincides with the Meridian of the Place or Hour-Line of 12, let the Surface of the Dial be Vertical, Horizontal, or even inclined upwards or downwards.

The Horizontal Line of a Dial-Plane, is the common Section of the said Plane, and a horizontal or level Line passing thro' the Extremity of the Style ; and the Equinoctial Line is the common Section of the Dial- Plane and Equinoctial Circle : and this Line is always perpen- dicular to the fubftylar Line ; and confequendy if the Pofition of the fubftylar Line be known, and a Point of the Equinoctial Line be given, we may likewise have the Pofition of the Equinoctial Line : and contrariwife, if the Equinoctial Line be given, we may have the fubftylar Line, which is perpendicular thereto. Note, This fubftylar Line must pass thro' the Foot of the Style and the Center of the Dial.

The Hour- Line of fix always palTts thro' the Interfection of the Horizontal and Equi- noctial Lines in declining Dials ; and so the said Point of Interfection is one Point of the Hour-Line of fix. Note, The Point wherein the Subftyle and Meridian Lines meet, is the Center of the Dial.

When a Dial is to be drawn upon a Plane, you mud first find the Pofition of the said Plane, or of the Wall it is to be fet up against, with regard to the Sun and the prin- cipal Circles of the Sphere: And this may be done, in obferving several Times the fame Day, at every 3 or 4 Hours interval, where the Shadow of the Extremity of a Style falls upon the Dial-Plane: for by this means the Pofition of the Dial- Plane may be deter- mined, and afterwards all the Hour-Lines, &e. may be drawn thereon in the manner we mail hereafter (hew. Note, The Exactnefs of a Dial very much depends upon these Points.

CHAP. I-

Of Regular and Irregular Dials, drawn upon Planes and Bodies

of different Figures.

Plate 11 ^ Jj ^ H I S Instrument reprefents a hollow Body, having 14 Planes, upon each of which a pi u ' J[ Dial may be drawn.

The upper Plane A, is parallel to the Horizon •, and so upon this a Horizontal-Dial is drawn, as well as upon the under Plane E, whereon the Sun mines but a very little. The Plane B is parallel to the Axis of the World, and makes an Angle of 49 Degrees with the Horizon of Paris ; for the Latitude of which, all the Dials are iuppofed to be drawn. Now upon this Plane is drawn an upper Polar Dial, and upon the Plane F, which is opposite thereto, is drawn an under Polar Dial. The Plane C is parallel to the Prime Vertical, and since it faces the South, there is drawn thereon a South Vertical Dial, And upon the op- pofite Plane to this, which is towards G, and faces directly to the North, is drawn a Vertical North Dial, which cannot be reprefented in this Figure.

The Plane H, which is parallel to the Equinoctial, and so makes an Angle with the Ho- rizon of 41 Deg. viz. the Complement of the Latitude of Paris, hath an upper Equinoctial Dial drawn upon it; and upon the opposite Plane D, is drawn an under Equinoctial Dial. The Plane K is parallel to the Plane of the Meridian, and because it directly faces the West, a Meridional Welt Dial is drawn thereon, and upon the opposite Plane to this is drawn a Meridional East Dial. The Plane I makes an Angle 45 Deg. with the Meridian ; and therefore there is drawn upon it a vertical Decliner, declining Southweltwardly 45 Deg. and upon the oppofire Plane to this is drawn a North-Eait Decliner of 45 Deg. Finally, The Plane L declines North-West 45 Deg. and its Oppofite 45 Deg. South-East ; and so upon these two Planes are drawn North- West and South-East Decliners.

The first Nine of the abovementioned Dials, are called Regular ones 5 and the Four others, which decline, are called Irregular Dials.

The Axes of all these Dials are parallel to each other, and to the Axis of the World. We mall hereafter give the Conftruction of all these Dials, as well as of those on the following Instrument, of which we are going to fpeak.

Tbe Conjlruclion of Dials drawn upon a Dodecahedron. Pi-. 2 _ This Figure is one of the five Regular Bodies, of which we have fpoken in the first

Book. This Body is called a Dodecahedron, and is terminated by 12 equal Pentagons, upon every of which may be drawn a Dial, except on the undermost.

The Plane A being Horizontal, hath a Horizontal-Dial drawn thereon, whose Hour-Line of 12 bifects one of the Angles of the Pentagon. Upon the Plane B, which faces the South, is drawn a direct South-Dial, inclining towards the Zenith, or upwards 63 Deg. 26 Min. The Center of this Dial is upwards, and the fubftylar Line is the Hour- Line of 12. The opposite Plane to this, is a North vertical one, inclining downwards or towards the Nadir 63 Deg. 26 Min. and so there is drawn thereon a North inclining Dial, whose Center is downwards.

The Dial C, is a South-East inclining Recliner, whose Declination is 36 Deg. and Inclina- tion to the Zenith 63 Deg. 26 Min. and its Center is downwards. The Dial D is a North- East Decliner of 72 Deg. inclining towards the Nadir 61 l&gt;g. 26 Min. the Center being upwards, and its opposite is a South- West Decliner of 72 Deg. inclining towards the Zenith ^3 Deg 26 Min. the Center being downwards.

Chap. i. of Sun-Dials. 21"

The Dial E is a North-East Decliner of 36 Deg. and inclines towards the Zenith 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Center being downwards. The opposite Dial to this, is a South- West Decliner of 36 Deg. and inclines towards the Nadir 63 Deg. 26 Min. it's Center being upwards. Fi- nally, the Dial F is a South- East Decliner of 72 Deg. inclining towards the Zenith 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Center being downwards ; and it's opposite is a North- West Decliner of 72 De?. inclining towards the Nadir 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Center thereof being upwards.

All these Dials are furniflied with their Axes, which are parallel between themfelves, and to the Axis of the World.

Now if one of these Bodies of Dials be {ct upon a Pedtftal, in a Place well expofed to the Sun, and then be fet right by means of a Compass or Meridian Line, drawn in the Man- ner we mall hereafter fhew •, all the Dials that the Sun mines upon will fhew the fame Hour or Part at the fame Time by the Shadows of the Styles.

But if a Dodecahedron of Dials be to be placed upon a Pedeftal fixed in a Garden, it ought to be made of solid Matter, as Stone or good Wood, well painted to preferve it from Rain, &c. therefore it will be here necefTary to fhew how to cut out a Dodecahedron.

Take a Stone cut out into a perfect Cube, and divide each of the four Sides of it's Faces Fig. 3. into two equal Parts, by two Diameters AC, BD. And at the Points A and C, make the Angles E AF, and H C G, each 116 Deg. 34 Min. that is, make Angles at the Points A and C, on each side the Diameter A C, of 58 Deg. 17 Min each : because all the Surfaces of the Dodecahedron make Angles of 116 Deg. 34 Min. with each other-, therefore two Faces thereof being horizontally placed, all the others will incline 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Complement of 116 Deg. 34 Min. to 180 Deg. Now the Space between F and G, or E H, will be the Length of each side of the Pentagons, half of which, viz. BF, must be taken and laid off both ways from the Point I to the Points Q^and X. And this must be done upon the Dia- meters crofting each other on all the other Faces of the Cube. Afterwards the Stone must be cut away along the Diameters to the Extremities of the Sides of the Pentagons : for Example, you must cut away the Stone down, or ail along the Diameter KM, in a Right Line to the Point Qjn the first Surface of the Cube, as likewise all along the Diameter L N ftrait for- wards to the Point S, and again all along the tJiameter B D directly forward to the Point T. And proceeding in this manner with the other Faces of the Cube, you may compleat your Dodecahedron. But it will be very proper for a Perfon that has a mind to cut out one of these Bodies, to have a Pafte'ooard one before him, thereby to help his Imagination, that so he may know better wnat Angles and Sides to cut away.

Cylinders may be cut likewise into Dodecahedrons, but let the Method above given suffice.

We make also very curious Dials on the Faces of small brafs Dodecahedrons.

The Conjlruftion of an Horizontal Dial.

The fourth Figure is an Horizontal Dial : To make which, first draw the two Lines A B, pi g&gt; , • C D, cutting each other at Right Angles in the Point E, which will be the Center of the Dial, the Line A B the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, and the Line CD the Hour-Line of 6. This being done, make the Angle B E F, 49 Deg. equal to the Elevation of the Pole at Paris (the Elevation of the Pole at Paris is but 48 Deg 5 1 Min. but we neglect the nine Minutes, as being but of small Confequence in the Conftruction of Dials) and the Line EF will reprefent the Axis of the World. In this the Point G must be chosen at pleafure, reprelenting the Center of the Earth, and G H must be drawn at Right Angles to E F, cutting the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12 in the Point H. This Line G H reprefents the Radius of the Equinoctial. Now take H G between your Compass s, which lay off from H to B on the Meridian Line, and draw the Right Line L H K perpendicular to the Meri- dian, which will reprefent the common Section of the Equinoctial, and the Plane of the Dial : then about the Point B, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant M H, which divide into fix equal Arcs, each of which will be 15 Deg. and draw the dotted Lines B 5, B 4, B 3, B 2, B 1. Thefe will divide the Line L H into the Points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, thro' which Points, if Lines be drawn from the Center E of the Dial, you will have the Hour-Lines of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, on. one side the Meridian; and because the Hour-Lines equally distant on both sides from the Meridian make equal Angles with the Meridian, therefore if the Divisions *» 2 &gt; 3&gt; A-&gt; 5&gt; on one side tne Meridian, be laid off from H towards K on the other side, and thro' the Points where they terminate are drawn Lines from the Center E ; these will be the Hour-Lines of 11, 10, 9, 8, 7. And if the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Morning are continued out beyond the Center, they will give the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Even- ing, and likewise the Hour-Lines of 4 and 5 in the Afternoon continued out in the fame manner, will give those of 4 and 5 in the Morning. Note y Inftead of drawing the Quadrant M H, we might, for greater facility, have only drawn an Arc greater than 60 Deg. for then if an Arc of 60 Deg. had been taken upon it from the Point H, by means of it's Chord, which is equal to Radius, and the said Arc had been divided in four equal Arcs, each of 15 Deg. and another Arc of 15 Deg. had been added to that of 60 Deg. for the Hour of 5, we might have drawn the Lines ii 1, 82, B 3, &c. as we have already done.

Now to draw the Half-hours, you must bifect each of the Arcs of 15 Deg. on the Qua- drant M H, in order to have Arcs of 7 Deg. 30 Min. and for the Quarters, each of these lad Arcs must be again bifected -, and thro' each Point of Division occult Lines must be drawn from the Center B, cutting the Equinoctial Line K L. Then if the Edge of a Ruler be laid thro' these Points of Concourfe and the Center E of the Dial, the Halfs and Quarters of Hours may be drawn.

The Hour-Lines being drawn upon your Dial, you may give it what Figure you pleafe, as a Parallelogram, regular Pentagon, fcfr.

This Dial being fixed upon a very level Plane, that is, fet parallel to the Horizon, expofed to the Sun, and it's Hour-Line of 12 placed exactly North and South •, as alio the Style or Axis E H F being raifed perpendicularly upon the Hour- Line of 12, so as E F be parallel to the Axis of the World: I fay, if these things be so ordered, the Shadow of the Axis or Style will fhew the Hour of the Day from Sun-rifing to Sun-fetting.

The ConJirutJion of a N on- declining Vertical Dial. F 'g« 5- This Dial is parallel to the Prime Vertical, which cuts the Meridian at Right Angles,

and partes thro' the East and West Points of the Horizon. The Manner of drawing it is thus : First draw the Lines EB and C D at Right Angles, the fir ft of which shall be the Hour-Line of 12, and the other the Hour-Line of 6 ; then make the Angle B E F at the Point E, the Center of the Dial, equal to the Complement of the Elevation of the Pole, which at Paris is 41 Deg. and raife the Line I G perpendicularly on the Meridian ; this will be the right Style, and the Point I is the Foot thereof, and G the Extremity, which, as above said, may be taken for the Center of the Earth : and this Line both ways produced, will be the Horizontal-Line.

From the Point G, in the Right Line E G F, which rcprefents the Axis of the World, raife the Line G H at Right Angles thereto, cutting the Meridian in B. This Line G H shall reprefent the Radius of the Equinoctial, and the Line L H K, drawn thro' the Point H, cutting the Meridian at Right Angles, reprefents the common Section of the Equinoctial and the Plane of the Dial. Now make H B equal to H G, and about the Point B, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant of a Circle M H, which divide into 6 equal Arcs, each of which will be 15 Deg. by dotted Lines, dividing the Line LK into unequal Parts, which shall be the Tangents of the said Arcs. Finally, If thro' those Points of Division and the Center E, you draw Lines, they will be the Hour-Lines on one side of the Meridian ; and for drawing the Hour-Lines on the other side the Meridian, as alio the Halves and Quarters of Hours, you must do as is fhewn in the Horizontal-L^ial.

This Dial is fet up against a Wall, or on a very upright Plane, directly facing the South ; for which reason it is called a Meridional Vertical Dial : it's Meridional or Hour-Line of 12 must be perfectly upright, and it's Horizontal-Line level. The Center thereof is upwards, and it's Axis points towards the under Pole. The opposite Dial to this, is a Vertical North one, having the Center downwards, and the Extremity of it's Axis pointing to the upper Pole of the World. The Conftruction of this latter Dial is the fame as that of the other, the Flour-Lines and the Axis making the fame Angles with the Meridian, as they do on that. But the Sun fhines but a small time upon this Dial, and this only in the Summer- time, viz. in the Morning from his rifing 'till he has passed the Prime Vertical, and in the Evening from the time he has again passed the Prime Vertical 'till his fetting. When the Sun defcribes the Summer Tropick, he rifes at Paris, at 4 in the Morning, and comes to the Prime Vertical between 7 and 8 in the Morning ; and in the Afternoon he repasses the Prime Vertical between 4 and 5, and fets at 8. Therefore we need only draw the Hour-Lines upon this Dial from 4 in the Morning to 8, and from 4 in the Afternoon to 8 ; at which time the Sun fhines upon the Meridional Vertical Dial, but from about 8 in the Morning to about 4 in the Afternoon. But when the Sun by his annual Motion is again come back to the Equinoctial, he will not fhine at all upon the Vertical North Dial till after he has croffed the Equinoctial again ; and all this time he will fhine upon the Meridional Vertical Dial from his rifing to his fetting.

The Conftrutlion of a Polar Dial.

Fig. 6. The 6th Figure reprefents an upper Polar Dial, which is one that inclines upwards, but

does not decline : for it is parallel to the Axis of the World, and the Hour-Circle of 6, which cuts the Meridian at Right Angles. And for this reason the Hour of 6 in the Morning or Evening can never be fhewn by this Dial ; for the Shadow of the Style being then parallel to the Plane of the Dial, cannot be caft upon it. This Dial likewise hath no Center, and the Hour-Lines are all parallel betv/een themfelvcs, and to the Axis of the World. The Plane therefore being parallel to the Horizon of a right Sphere, passes thro' the two Poles of the World, from whence comes the Name of a Polar Dial.

The Manner of drawing this Dial is thus : First draw the Line A B reprefenting the Equinoctial, and I D at Right Angles thereto, for the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12. Then affume the Length of the Style at pleafure, according to the bigness of the Plane the Dial is to be drawn on -, let this be CD, about the Extremity of which D defcribe a Quadrant, which divide into fix equal Arcs (or onlydefcribe an Arc of 60 Degrees, which divide into four Parts, of 15 Degrees each, for the four first Hours after Noon, and then' add an Arc of 15 Degrees for the flour of 5.)- This being done, draw dotted Lines from the Point D, thro' the Divilions of the Circumference of the said Arc, to the Line AB ; and then if Lines are drawn thro' the Points wherein the dotted Lines cut the Line AB, parallel to the Meridian, these Lines will be the Hour-Lines on one side the Meridian: and if there be as many Parallels drawn on the other side the Meridian, at the fame Distances therefrom as the refpective parallel Hour-Lines are on the other side, these will be the Hour-Lines on the other side of the Meridian. The Style of this Dial must be equal in Length to C F, the Distance from the Hour-Line of 3 to the Hour-Line of 12, and may be made in figure of a Right-angled Parallelogram, as is that marked above the Letter K in the Figure of the Dial. This Style is let upon the Hour-Line of 12, which for this Reason is called the Sub* ftylar Line.

If a fingle Rod only be used for a Style, as that which is in the Point C of the Meridian, then the Hour will be fhewn upon this Dial by the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style j whereas when a Parallelogram is used, we have the Hour fhewn by the Shadow of one ot ics Sides, that is, by a right Line.

An upper Polar Dial may fhew the Hour from seven in the Morning to five in the After- noon ; and an under Polar one is ufelefs, unlefs in the Summer, wherein the Hour is fhewn thereby, from the Sun's rifing to five in the Morning, and from kven in the Evening 'till his fetting: and so for the Elevation of the Pole of Paris, the Hours of four and five in the Morning, and seven and eight in the . Tternoon, are only fet down upon this Dial-, and these may be drawn as those on the upper Po&lt;ar Dial, for tile Distances of the Hour-Lines of four and five in the Afternoon from the Subftyle, on the upper Polar Dial, are equal to the Distances of the Hour-Lines of four and five in the Morning from the Subftyle on the under Polar Dial. Underftand the fame for the Hours of seven and eight in the Afternoon ; and therefore there is no need of drawing the Figure of this Dial. Note, The Distance of the Hour-Lines on these Dials depend upon the Breadth of the Style, or the Distance of the Point D from the Equinoctial Line.

To fet up this Dial at Pan's, the Plane thereof must make an Angle of 49 Deg. with the Horizon, the upper one facing the Sky directly South, that so the Axis thereof may be parallel to that of the World, and the opposite Dial to this, viz. the under Polar one faces downwards, the Morning Hours being, towards the West, and the Afternoon ones towards the East, on both the upper and under ones.

Now if the Horizontal Line is to be drawn upon this Dial, defcribe the Arc GH, about the Point F, the Extremity of the Style, equal to the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 49 Deg. for the Latitude of Paris, and draw the Right Line F H, cutting the Meridian in the Point I, thro' which draw the Horizontal Line L K, at Right Angles. Now by means of this Line, we may know whether the Dial be well placed, and have its convenient In- clination ; for if the Dial be inclined rightly, a Plane laid along the Horizontal Line, and fupported by the Edge of the Style, will be level or parallel to the Horizon.

A Polar Dial in a right Sphere is parallel to the Horizon, and in a parallel Sphere it is vertical or upright.

The ConftruRion of an EquinoRial Dial.

An upper Equinoctial Dial fhews the Hour but only fix Months in the Year, viz. from Fig. 7; the Vernal Equinox to the Autumnal one ; and the opposite Dial to this, which is an under Equinoctial one, fhews the Hour during the other fix Months of the Year, viz. from the Autumnal Equinox to the Vernal one.

The Plane of this Dial is parallel to the Equinoctial Circle, and is cut at Right Angles through the Center thereof by the Axis of the World.

The Conftruction of this Dial is thus : Draw two Right Lines AH, and ED, crofting each other at Right Angles, the first of which shall be the Hour-Line of 12, and the other the Hour-Line of 6 ; then about the Point A of Interferon defcribe a Circle, each quarter of which divide into fix equal Parts, thro' which, if ftrait Lines be drawn from the Center A, these Lines will be the Hour-Lines, because they each make equal Angles of 15 Deg. and if each of these Angles be halved and quartered, the halves and quarters of Hours will be had.

The Conftruction of an under Equinoctial Dial is the fame as of an upper one ; and in a parallel Sphere, viz. where the Pole is in the Zenith, there is but one Equinoctial Dial, which will likewise be there an Horizontal one. And in a right Sphere, viz. where the two Poles are in the Horizon, these Dials are non-declining Vertical ones &gt; ar &gt;d are fet up against Walls, one of which faces the North Pole, and the other the South Pole, the Sun fhining upon each fix Months in the Year. But in an oblique Sphere, as that which we inhabit, these Diais are inclined to the Horizon, and make an Angle therewith equal to the Comple- ment of the Latitude, viz. at Paris, an Angle of 41 Deg.

The Axis of an Equinoctial Dial is a ftrait Iron Rod going thro' the Center of the Dial perpendicular to the Plane thereof, and parallel to the Axis of the World. The Length of this Rod may be at pleafure, when it hath no other Use but fhewing the Hour by the Shadow thereof; but when the Length of the Days, and the Sun's Place are to be fhewn thereby, the. said Rod must have a determinate Length, as we (hall fhtw hereafter.

The ConftruElion of Eqft and IVefi Dials.

Fig. 8. Thefe Dials are parallel to the Plane of the Meridian •, one of which direcTtly faces the East,

and the other the West. The 8th Figure is a West Dial, having the Hour-Lines parallel to each other, and to the Axis of the World, as in a Polar Dial, and their Conftruction is near- ly the fame as of the Hour-Lines on a Polar Dial.

This Dial is made thus : First draw the right Line A B, rcprefenting the Horizontal Line, and about the Point A, affume the Arc B C of a Radius at pleafure in this Line, equal to the Complement of the Latitude, or Height of the Equator above the Horizon, which at Paris is 41 Deg. Then draw the Line C D, produced, as is necefTary, from the Point C, and this Line shall reprefent the common Section of the Equinoctial and Plane of the Dial ; after this, draw ED from the Point D, parallel to the Equinoctial Line, and this Line ED will be the Place of the Subftyle, that is, the Line on which the Style must be placed ; as like- wife the Hour-Line of Six. Now to draw the other Flour-Lints, affume the Point E at pleafure on the fubftylar Line, about which, as a Center, defcribe an Arc of 60 Deg. which divide into four equal Parts for 15 Deg. each, beginning from the fubftylar Line. After this, lay off as many Arcs of 15 Deg. as is necefTary upon the said Arc both ways continued, and draw dotted Lines from the Center E thro' all the Divisions of the Arc to the Equi- noctial Line : then if right Lines .be drawn thro' the Points in the Equinoctial Line, made by the dotted Lines, parallel to the Hour-Line of 6, and perpendicular to the Equinoctial Line •, these Lines will be the Hour-Lines. Note., This Dial fhews the Time of Day after Noon to the Setting of the Sun •, and since the Sun fets (at Paris) at Eight o'Clock in the Summer, we have pricked down the Flour-Lines from One to Eight in this Dial, as appears fer Figure.

The Conftruction of an East Dial is the fame as of this ; and there are pricked down the Hour-Lines upon it from the Sun's rifing in Summer, viz. from Four in the Morning to Eleven. The reason that the Hour-Line of Twelve cannot be drawn upon these Dials, is, because when the Sun is in the Meridian, his Rays are parallel to their Planes.

If a West Dial be drawn upon a Sheet of Paper, and then the said Paper is rendered Tranfparent by oiling, you will perceive thro' the backfide of the Paper an East Dial drawn entirely •, only the Figures of the Hours must be altered, that is, you must put 1 1 in the Place of 1 •, 10 in the Place of 2 ; and fb ot others.

The Style of these Dials is a Brass or Iron Rod, in Length equal to E D, which is like- wife equal to the Distance of the Hour of 3 from the Hour of 6. This Style is fet upright in the Point D, and fhews the Hovr by the Shadow of it's Extremity. Thefe Dials, which may have likewise a Style in figure of a Parallelogram, as we have mentioned in fpeaking of Polar Dials, are fet upright against Walls or Planes, perpendicular to the Horizon, and pa- rallel to the Meridian, one of which directly faces the East, and the other the West, in such manner, that the Horizontal Line be perfectly level.

The ConftruRion of Vertical Declining Dials.

A Vertical Dial is one that is made upon a Vertical Plane, that is, a Plane perpendicular to the Horizon, as a very upright Wall.

Among the nine Regular Dials of which we have fpoken, there are four of them Vertical ones, which do not decline at all, since they directly face the four Cardinal Parts of the World. It now remains that we here fpeak of Irregular Dials, some of which are vertical Decliners, others undeclining Decliners, and finally, others declining Incliners. Vertical Decliners are of four Kinds : for some decline South-eaftwardly, the opposite ones to these, North-weftwardly, others decline South-weftwardly, and the opposite ones to these, North- eaftwardly.

Now among the Irregular Dials, the vertical Decliners are most in ufe, because they are made upon or fet up against Walls (which commonly are built upright), or else upon Bodies whose Planes are upright ; but before these Dials can be made, the Declinations of the Walls or Planes, on which they are to be made or fet up against, must first be known or found exactly : and this may be done by some one of the Methods hereafter men- tioned.

Fig. 9. Now suppose we know that a Plane (as that marked I of Figure 1.) or upright Wall, declines 45 Deg. South-weftwardly at Paris, or thereabouts, where the Pole is elevated 49 Deg. above the Horizon. It is required to draw a Dial for this Declination.

First, draw the Lines A B, CD, croffing each other at Right Angles in the Point E, the former of which shall be the Hour-Line of 12, and the other the FIorizontal'Line. About the Point E, as a Center, draw the Arc F N of 45 Deg. because the Plane's Declination is such, and since it is South-weftwardly, the said Arc must be drawn on the Right-side of the Meridian •, but if the Declination had been South-eaftwardly, that Arc must have been drawn

Chap, r . of Sun-Dials, %iy

drawn on the Left-side the Meridian. This being done, raife the Perpendicular FH from the Point F to the horizontal Line, that so we may hate one Point of the Style therein, viz. the Foot of the Style. Then take the Distance E F between your Compares, and lay it off upon the horizontal Line from E to O, and about the Point O, as a Center, defcribe the Arc E G equal to the Height of the Pole, viz. in this Cafe 49 Deg. and draw the dotted Line O A to the Hour-Line of 12 ; then A will be the Center of the Dial thro' which the Subftyle A H mud be drawn of an indeterminate Length. Note, This Subftyle is one of the principal Lines, by means Of which a Dial of this kind is drawn, and upon which the whole Exactnefs thereof almost depends.

Upon the Point H raife the right Line H I equal to H F, perpendicular to the Subftyle A H, and draw the right .Line A I, prolonged, for the Axis of the Dial. Then let fall the Perpendicular K I to the Axis, cutting the fubftylar Line in K, and make K L equal to % I, and draw a right Line both ways thro' the Point K, perpendicular to the Subftyle A K •, this will reprefent the Equinoctial Line, and cuts the Horizontal Line in a Point thro' which the Hour- Line of 6 must pass. Thus having already the Hour-Lines of 12 and 6, if the Operations hitherto performed have been done right, two dotted Lines L 6, and LN being drawn, will be at Right Angles to each other. Again, About the said Point L, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant of a Circle between the said dotted Lines, whole Circumference divide into 6 equal Arcs, of 15 Degrees each, and draw occult Lines thro' the Points of Division to cut the Equinoctial Line ; but to have the Morning Hour-Lines, and those after 6, prolong the Arc of the Quadrant both ways, and lay off as many Arcs of 15 Degrees upon it, as is neceffary, that so occult Lines may be drawn from the Center L to cut the Equinoctial Line. Then if Lines are drawn from the Center A thro' all the Points wherein. the occult Lines cut the Equinoctial Line, these Lines thus drawn will be the Hour- Lines. Note, There must be but 12 Hour-Lines drawn upon any vertical declining Plane, for the Sun will fhine on any one of them but 12 Hours.

Points in the horizontal Line D C, thro' which the Hour-Lines must pass, may be found otherwise, by applying the Center of a horizontal Dial to the Point F, in such manner, that the Meridian Line thereof coincides with the Line F E, and it's Hour-Line of 6, with the Line F 6 : for then the Points where the Hour- Lines of the horizontal Dial cut the said Line D C, will be the Points therein thro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn from the Center A.

The Hour- Lines of fix Hours fuccefiively being given upon the Plane of any Dial what- foever, the other Hour-Lines may be drawn after the following Manner : Suppose, in this Example, that the Hour-Lines from 6 to 12 are drawn j now if you have a mind to draw the Hour-Lines of 9, 10 and 11 in the Morning, which may be pricked down upon this Dial, draw a Parallel, as S V, from the Point V, taken at pleafure on the Hour-Line of 12, to the Hour-Line of 6, which shall cut the Hour-Lines of 1, 2, and 3, in the Afternoon. This being done, the Distance from V to the Hour- Line of 1 taken on this Parallel, and laid off on the other Side, will give a Point in the said Parallel thro' which the Hour-Line of 11 must be drawn -, likewise the Distance V 2 will give a Point thereon, thro' which the Hour Line of 10 must be drawn ; and the Distance V 3 will give a Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 9 must pass. And so if Lines are drawn from the Center of the Dial A thro* the said Points, they will be the Hour-Lines.

In this manner likewise may be found the Points thro' which the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Evening are drawn, in first drawing a Parallel to the Hour-Line of 12, cutting the Hour-Line of 6 in one Point, and meeting the Hour-Lines of 4 and 5 produced •, for the Distance from the Points where the Hour-Lines of 6 and 5 are cut by this Parallel, laid off on the other Side from the Point where the Hour-Line of 6 cuts the Parallel, will give a Point upon it thro' which the Hour-Line of 7 must be drawn. And the Distance from the Points where the Parallel cuts the Hour-Lines of 6 and 8, laid off on the other Side on that Parallel, will give a Point therein thro' which the Hour-Line of 8 must pass «, and if Lines are drawn from the Center A thro' those two Points found, they will be the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Evening. This is a very good way of drawing those Hour-Lines that are pretty distant from the fubftylar Line, because thereby we avoid cutting the Equinoctial very obliquely.

The Conftruction of a South-East vertical Decliner is the fame as of that which we have defcribed, excepting only that what was there made on the Right must here be on the Left, and the Figures for the Morning Hours fet to those for the Afternoon : so that if a South- West declining Dial be drawn upon a Sheet of Paper, and afterwards the Paper be oiled, that you may fee thro' it, you will fee a South-East Decliner thro' the Paper •, only the Fi- gures fet to the Hour-Lines must be altered •, as, where the Figure of 1 ftands, you must fet 11 ; where the Figure of 2, 10 ; where the Figure of 3, 9 ; and so on. By this means the iubftylar Line, which falls between the Hour-Lines of 3 and 4 Afternoon, in Figure 9, will fall in this Dial between 8 and 9 in the Morning. And if the Plane's Declination had been ltfs than 45 Deg. the Subftyle would have fallen yet nearer to the Meridian : but if, on the contrary, the Declination thereof had been greater, the Subftyle would have fallen more distant from the Meridian, and pretty near the Hour-Line of 6. But when this happens, the Hour-Lines fall so clofe together near the Subftyle, that we are obliged to make the Model of a Dial upon a very large Plane, that so the Hour-Lines may be very long, and the part of the Dial towards the Center taken away.

After the abovenamed manner, likewise may be drawn North-East and North- West Dials • but these have their Centers downwards underneath the Horizontal Line, and properly are no other but South-East or South-West Decliners inverted, as may be feen in Figure 10, which reprefents a North-Weil Decliner of 45 Deg. drawn for the Plane L of Figure 1. and the fubftylar Line of this Dial mud be between the Hours of 8 and 9 in the Evening, whence one Decliner only may ferve for drawing four, if they have an equal Declination, tho' to different Coafts; two of which will have their Centers upwards, and the other two their Centers downwards.

To draw the Subjlylar Line upon a Plane by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of an Iron-

Rod, observed twice the fame Day.

Suppose the Subftylar Line is to be found on the Decliner of Figure 9, first place obliquely upon the Dial-Plane, a Wire or Iron Rod, fharp at the end, so that the Extremity thereof be perpendicularly over the Point H in the Plane. This may be done by means of a Square.

Now since this Figure is a South-West vertical Decliner, therefore the Subftylar Line

thereon must be found among the Afternoon Hours, to the Right-hand of the Meridian ; and confequently, let us suppose the Shadow of the Extremity of the Iron- Rod at the rirft Obfervation to fall on the Point P ; then about the Point H, the Foot of the Style, with the Distance HP, defcribe the circular Arc PR. This being done, some Hours after the first Obfervation the fame Day, obferve when the Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod falls a second time upon the aforsaid Arc, which suppose in the Point Qj then if the Arc PQ^be bifected in the Point R, and a Right-line be drawn thro' the Points R and H ; this Line will be the Subftyle, which being exactly drawn, and the Height of the Pole above the Horizon of the Place where the Dial is made for, being otherwise known, it will not then be difficult to compleat the Dial ; for first, the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12 is always perpendicular to the Horizon, in vertical Planes, and the Point wherein the Meridian and Subftylar Line produced meet each other, (as the Point A) will be the Center of the Dial. The Horizontal Line is a level Line palling thro' the Foot of the Style, as DHC.

And to draw the Equinoctial Line, you must first form the Triangular Style AHI on the Subftyle, whose Hypothenufe A I is the Axis, and Side FI I the right Style; then if I K be drawn from the Point I perpendicular to the Axis, meeting the Subftylar Line in the Point K; and if thro' K a Right Line MKN be drawn at Right Angles to the Stylar Line, this Line will be the Equinoctial, and the Point wherein it cuts the Horizontal Line will be always the Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 6 must pass. Moreover, the Distance K L, laid off on the Stylar Line, will give the Point L the Center of the Equinoctial Circle. Now what remains to be done, may be compleated as before explained ; and even the whole Dial may be drawn in one's Room, after the Pofitions and Concourfes of the principal Lines are laid off upon a Sheet of Paper, and the Angle which the Subftylar Line makes with the Meridian or Horizontal Line be taken ; for one is the Complement of the other.

Now to prove whether the Equinoctial Line be drawn right, make the Angle BAO equaj to the Complement of the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 41 Deg. for the Latitude of Paris, draw the Line AO to the Horizon, and make the Angle AON a Right one, that so the Point N may be had in the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, thro' which the Equinoctial Line must pass. Thus having several Ways for finding the principal Points, one of them will ferve to prove the other.

When a Dial Plane declines South-eaftwardly, the Subftylar Line will be on the right Side of the Meridian. In which Cafe it is proper to take notice, that in finding the Subftylar Line, as above, to obferve when the Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod falls upon the Plane, as foon as the Sun begins to fhine thereon ; as likewise to mind the Time very exactly when the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style comes again to touch the circular Arc •, you may operate in this manner several Days fucceflively, in order to fee whether the Pofition of the Subftylar Line has been found exactly.

When a Plane declines North-East or North-West, the Shadows of the Extremity of the Iron Rod fall above the Foot of the Style, and so the Center of the Dial must be down- wards. Likewise the most proper Time for making these Operations is about 15 Days be- fore or after the Solftices, for when the Sun is near the Equinoctial, his Declination is too fenfible, and the Operations less exact. Neverthelefs the Equinoctial Line may be drawn up- on a Plane, when the Sun is in the Equinoctial Points, and by that means a vertical declining Dial conftructed, by the following Method.

To draw the EqninoEfial Line upon a vertical Plane by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of

The most fimple and eafy Method to draw the Equinoctial Line upon a Wallat tke Time when the Sun is in the Equinoctial, (though this may be done at any other

Chap. i. of Snn-T)ia!s. 219

Time by more complicated Methods) for when the Sun defcribes the Equinoctial by his diurnal Motion, the Shadows of the Extremity of the Iron-Rod or Style, will all fall upon a Plane in a right Line, which is the common Section of the Equinoctial Circle, of the Heavens and the Plane. Therefore if several Points, pricked down upon a Plane, made by the Sha- dow of the Extremity of the Rod, on the Day the Sun is in the Equator, be joined, the ri^ht Line joining them will be the Equinoctial Line, as the Line M N, in Figure 9. This being done, draw the right Line A H L thro' the Foot of the Style at Right Angles to the Equinoctial Line, and this will be the'Subitylar Line: Moreover, draw the level Line D'HC thro' the Foot H of the Style ; this will be the Horizontal Line ; and if H I be drawn equal to the Height of the right Style, and parallel to the Equinoctial Line and the Points K and L joined ; and if A I be drawn at Right Angles to K I, then the Point A will be the Center of the Dial, and the upright Line AB the Meridian or Hour- Line of 12. The common Section of the Equinoctial and Horizontal Lines, will likewise be the Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 6 must pass, and confequently wherewith the Dial may be finifhed. Note, The Angle H F E will be the Plane's Declination.

To draw a Dial upon a Vertical Plane by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of an Iron- Rod or Style observed upon the Plane at Noon.

A Style, as H I {Vide Figure 9.), being fet up on a Wall or Dial Plane, whose Foot is H, and Extremity I ; and if you know by any means when it is Noon, which may be known by a Meridian Line drawn upon a Horizontal Plane, as we shall mention hereafter, note where the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style H I falls upon the Plane at Noon, which suppose in the Point N, and thro' this Point draw the Perpendicular A N B, which confe- quently will be the Meridian of the Place or Hour-Line of 12 ; then draw the level Line CFI D, cutting the Meridian at Right Angles in the Point E ; this will be the Horizontal Line. Again,. Draw H F equal in Length to the right Style H I, and parallel to the Meri- dian ; then take the Hypothenufe E F between your Compasses, and lay it off upon the Ho- rizontal Line from E to O, and make the Angle E O A equal to the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 49 Deg. and then the Point A will be the Center of the Dial.

Likewise make the Angle EON, underneath the Horizontal Line, equal to the Comple- ment of the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 41 Deg. and the Point N on the Meridian Line will be that thro' which the Equinoctial Line mult pass. Then if the right Line A H K be drawn thro' the Center A, and the Foot of the Style H, this will be the Subftylar Line ; and if a Perpendicular be drawn thro' the Point N to this Line, the said Perpendicular will be the Equinoctial Line. Thus having found the principal Lines of the Dial, you may compleat it by the Methods before explained.

This Method of drawing a Dial at any Time of the Year, by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style H I observed at Noon, may ferve, when it is not poffible to find the Subftylar Line by the Obfervations of the Shadows of the Extremity of an Ir,on-Rod or Style, which happens when Planes decline considerably Eastwards or West wards.

There are several other Methods of drawing Vertical Dials on Walls or Planes : but those would take up too much time to mention in this small Treatife, wherein we have only laid down the most fimple and eafy Methods of drawing Vertical Dials. And in order to dr^w Dials more exactly, we shall hereafter lay down Rules for calculating the Angles the Hour-Lines make at the Centers j and so the other Methods may be verified by thefc Rules.

The ConflruRion of Non-declining inclining Dials.

The Inclinations of these Dials are the Angles that their Planes make with the Horizon, and some of them face the Heavens, and others the Earth. There are likewise two Kinds of them with regard to the Pole ; and two other Kinds with regard to the Equi- noctial.

If a Plane facing the South hath an Inclination towards the North, this Inclination may be Fig. 11, iz, less or greater than the Elevation of the Pole ; for if the Inclination be equal to the Elevation of the Pole, this Dial- Plane will be an upper or under Polar one, whose Conftruction we have already laid down.

If the Inclination be less than the Elevation of the Pole, which at Paris is nearly 49 Deg. and you would make a Dial upon a Plane facing the South, having 30 Deg. of Inclination towards the North, fubftract 30 Deg. from 49 Deg. and the Remainder 19 Deg. will be the Height of the Axis or Style above the Plane. Then if a Horizontal Dial be made upon this Plane for the Latitude of 19 Deg. in the manner we have already laid down, we shall have an Incliner of 30 Deg. drawn, because the said Plane thus inclined is parallel to the Horizon of those Places where the Pole is elevated 19 Deg. and confequently this must be a Horizon- tal Dial for those Places. The Center of this Dial is downwards, underneath the Equinoctial Line, and the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left, and the Afternoon ones on the Right-hand ot those looking at them.

The under opposite Dial to this, which faces towards the North, is the fame as the upper one facing towards the South, excepting only that the Center is upwards above the

Equinoctial Line, and the Morning Hour-Lines on the Right, and the Afternoon ones on the Left-hand.

If the Inclination of the Plane be greater than the Elevation of the Pole, suppose at Paris, and it be 63 Deg. fubftract the Elevation of the Pole 49 Deg. from 63 Deg. and the Remainder will be 14 Deg. and then make an Horizontal Dial for this Elevation of 14 Deo-, and you will have an Incliner of 63 Deg. the Center of the upper Plane facing towards the South, is upwards above the Equinoctial Line, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left-hand, those of the Afternoon towards the Right ; and in the opposite under Plane facing towards the North, the Center is downwards, the Morning Hours on the Right, and those of the Afternoon on the Left, as may be feen in Figure 1 1 and 12.

If the Plane faces the North, and inclines Southwards, the Inclination thereof may be less or greater than that of the Equinoctial ; for if it be equal, we need only make an upper or under Equinoctial Dial thereon, which is a Circle divided into 24 equal Parts, as is above di- rected in fpeaking of Regular Dials.

If the Inclination be less than the Elevation of the Equinoctial, as, suppose a Plane at Paris inclines 30 Deg. Southwardly, add the 30 Deg. of Inclination to 49 Deg. the Height of the Pole, and make an Horizontal Dial for the Elevation of 79 Deg. and your Dial will be drawn : the Center of the upper Dial facing Northwardly, will be upwards, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Right-hand, the Afternoon ones on the Left •, and on the opposite under Dial to this, the Center will be downwards, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left, and the Afternoon ones on the Right-hand.

Finally, If the Inclination, which suppose 60 Deg. be greater than the Height of the Equinoctial, add the Complement of the Inclination, which is 30 Deg. to the Elevation of the Equinoctial, which is 41 Deg. at Paris, and the Sum is 71 Deg. and make an Horizontal Dial for this Elevation of the Pole. The Center of the upper one of these Dials is down- wards, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Right-hand, and the Center of the opposite under Dial is upwards, and the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left-hand.

Note, The Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, is the Subftylar Line of all Non-declining in- clining Dials, passes thro' their Centers at right Angles to the Hour-Lines of 6, and may be drawn by means of the Shadow of a Plumb-Line patting thro' their Centers.

There ought to have been eight Figures to reprefent all these different Dials, viz. four for the upper ones, and four for the under ones ; but since they are not difficult to be conceived or drawn, we have only reprefented two of them, with refpect to the Dodecahedron on which we place them.

The Conjlruftion of Declining inclining Dials.

The Declination of a Dial is the Angle that the Plane thereof makes with the Prime Ver- tical ; and it's Inclination is the Angle made by the Plane thereof witn the Horizon : both of which we mall fhew how to find hereafter.

Now suppose, for Example, that a Dial is to be drawn upon a Plane declining 36 Deg. South-eaftwardly, and inclining 63 Deg. 26 Min. towards the Earth, as does the Plane C on the Dodecahedron of Figure 2.

But before we fhew how to draw this Dial, you must first obferve that the Horizontal Line, which paries thro' the Foot of the Style in Vertical Dials, must in no wife pals thro' it in inclining Dials ; for in upper Incliners facing the Heavens, this Line muff be drawn above the Foot of the Style, and in under Incliners, facing the Earth, below the Foot of the Style. Secondly, The Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, in inclining Dials, does not cut the Horizontal Line at right Angles, as it does in Vertical Dials, but must be drawn thro' two Points ; one of which is found upon the Horizontal Line by means of the Angle of De- clination, and the other upon a Vertical Line cutting the Horizontal one at right Angles.

This last Point in upper Incliners is called the Zenith Point, because if the Sun was in the Zenith of the Place for which the Dial is made, the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style would fall upon that Point, which confequently will be underneath the Style of these Dials. And in under Incliners, the said Point is called the Nadir Point, because if the Sun was in the Nadir, and the Earth tranfparent, the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style would touch that Point, which confequently will be above the Style, as in the proposed Dial.

Thirdly, The Center of the proposed under Dial which declines South-eaftwardly must be upwards, the Subftylar Line to the Left-hand of the Vertical Line, and the Meridian among the Morning Hour-Lines, and so on the Right of the Vertical Line. The Centers of upper Dials declining South-weftwardly must be likewise upwards, the Subftylar Line on the Right- hand of the Vertical one, and the Meridian among the Afternoon Hour-Lines ; and the op- pofite upper Dials to these, have their Centers downwards, and are no other but these Dials inverted : and therefore one of these four Dials is enough to be drawn. F 'g- «3- In order for this, let it be required to draw a Dial upon a Plane of the abovefaid Decli-

nation and Inclination. First, Draw the two Lines Ajf, CD, cutting each other at right Angles in the Point E -, then let C D be parallel to the Horizon, and upon it aflume E F at pleafure, for the Length of the right Style, whose Foot fhaH be E, and Extremity F, and about the Center F defcnbe the Arc G H, equal to the Plane's Inclination, viz. 6% Deg. 26 Min. and draw the right LineAF; likewifc make the Angle G FI equal to the Comple- ment of 63 Deg. 26 Min. viz. 26 Deg. 34 Min. This being done, the Point A will be the Nadir, and one Point of the Meridian Line, and if a right Line M L N be drawn thro' the Point L, parallel to CD, this will be the horizontal Line ; and if the Distance LF be taken between your Cotnpasses, and laid off from L to O, the Point O will be the Center tfiro' which Lines may be drawn dividing the horizontal Line. Again, About the Point O defcribe the Arc L P of 36 Deg. viz. the Plane's Declination, and draw the Line O P cut- ting the horizontal Line MLN in the Point 12 ; then if a right Line be drawn thro' the Nadir A and this Point 12, the said Line A 12 will be the Meridian of the Dial or Hour- Line of 12 : and moreover, if an Angle be made at the Point O on the Left-side of the Line AB, equal to the Complement of the Plane's Declination, which here is 54 Deg. you will have a Point on the horizontal Line thro' which the Hour-Line of 6, as likewise the Equinoctial Line, must pass.

The next thing to be found is another Point, besides E the Foot of the Style, thro' which the fubftylar Line must pass ; and in order for this, we need only find the Center of the Dial, after the following manner.

Draw the Line M R from the Point M, (thro' which the Hour- Line of 6 passes) at right Angles to the Meridian A 12, lay off the Distance O 12, from 12 to R, or else the Distance AF from A to R, draw the occult Line 12 R, and about the Point R defcribe the Arc NK, of 49 Deg. viz. the Elevation of the Pole; then if RK be drawn cutting the Me- ridian in the Point K, this will be the Center of the Dial. After this, the Subftylar Line K E may be drawn ; and if the Perpendicular M QJ)e drawn to this Line thro' the Point M, the said MQ^will be the Equinoctial Line. Moreover, the Point in the Meridian Line thro' which the Equinoctial Line must pass, may be found by making the Angle N R Q^ of 41 Deg. that is, the Complement of the Elevation of the Pole.

ThePofitions of the principal Lines being thus found, it will not now be difficult to find the Points on the horizontal or equinoctial Lines, thro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn ; for if the Points are to be found upon the horizontal Line you must apply the Center of a horizontal Dial to the Point O, in such manner, that the Hour-Line of 12 anfwers to the Line O 12, and the Hour-Line of 6 to the Line O 6 : then the Points in the horizontal Line M N, thro' which the other Hour-Lines must be drawn, may be determined eafily. And if the Points thro' which the Hour-Lines must pass on the equinoctial Line be to be found, you must raife the Perpendicular E S on the Subftyle equal to E F, and draw the Axis S K ; and afterwards take the Distance T S between your Compasses, and lay off on the Subftyle from T to V, then V will be the Center of the Equinoctial Circle, by means of which the Equinoctial Line may be divided, as we have directed in fpeaking of declining Dials, and the Hour-Lines drawn thro' the Center of the Dial K. Your Dial being thus made, you may draw a fair Draught thereof, wherein are only the principal Lines, and the Hour-Lines, as may be feen in the Pentagonal Figure marked 14.

By means of this Dial three others of the fame Declination and Inclination may be made. The two under ones declinining South-eaftwardly and South-weftwardly, have their Centers upwards •, and the two upper ones, which decline North-eaftwardly and North-weftwardly, their Centers downwards, and are only the two former Dials inverted, as we have al- ready mentioned.

The Dial of the Figure 15, reprefents that marked F in Figure 2, and is an upper Incliner of 63 Deg. 26 Min. declining South-eaftwardly 72 Deg. and may be drawn by the abovefaid Method. The Center of this Dial is upwards, and because it has a great Declination, the Hour-Lines will fall very clofe to one another near the Subftylar Line; and therefore it ought to be drawn upon a large Plane, that so the Part thereof next to the Center may be taken away, and the Style and the Hour-Lines terminated by two Parallels.

There is another way of drawing Mechanically any forts of Dials whatfoever, upon Po- lyhedrons or Bodies of different Faces or Superficies, without even knowing the Declina- tions or Inclinations of the Faces or Superficies, and that with as much exactnefs as by any other Methods whatfoever. In order to do this, you must first make an horizontal Dial up- on one of the Planes or Faces that is to be fet parallel to the Horizon, and fet up the Style thereof upon the Hour-Line of 12, conformable to the Latitude of the Place. After this, the Subftylar Lines must be drawn upon all the Planes or Faces of the Polyhedron that the Sun can fhine upon, that so Brass or Iron Styles, proportioned to the bigneffes of the Planes, or Faces, may be fixed upon them perpendicularly in such manner, that the Axes or upper Edges of the said Styles be parallel to the Axis of the horizontal Dial. This may be done in filing them away in right Lines by Degrees, until their Axes, being compared with the Axis of a large Style similar to that of the horizontal Dial placed level, (or held up so that its Base be parallel to the Horizon, by means of a Thread and Plummet hung to the Top of the Style) appear in a right Line with the Axis of the said Style.

Things being thus ordered, fet your Polyhedroh in the Sun, and turn it about, making the Shadow of the Axis of the horizontal Dial fall upon each Hour-Line thereof fucceffively, and if at each of the refpective Times right Lines be drawn along the Shadows of the Axes of the Styles of the other Faces of the Body upon the said Faces, these will be the fame Hour-Lines upon each of the Faces of the Body, that the Shadow of the Style of the Hori- zontal Dial fell upon, on the Horizontal Dial. For example ; Suppcfe the Shadow of the Axis of the Horizontal Dial falls upon the Hour Line of 12 ; then at the fame time draw Lines along the Shadows of the Styles upon the other Faces of the Body, and those Lines will be the Hour-Lines of 12 upon the said Faces: underftand the fame for others. This may be done likewise in the Night, by the Light of a Link moved about the Polyhedron.

There are great Stone Bodies cut into several Faces placed fometimes in Gardens hav- ing Dials drawn upon them, according to the aboveiaid Method, And the Edges of the Stone which ferve for Axes to some of these Dials, must be cut so as to be parallel to the Axis of the World.

'The Arithmetical ConfiruUion of Dials by the Calculation of Angles.

This Method is a great help for verifying any Operations in Dialling, wherein there is crreat Exactnefs required, and chiefly when we are obliged to make a small Model for drawino- a large Dial : for an Error almost infenfible in the Model, will become very confiderable in the long Hour- Lines to be drawn upon a large Plane.

In the Conftruction of Regular Di^ls, as of the Horizontal one of Figure 4, the Divisions of the Equinoctial Line LK, are the Tangents of the Angles of the Quadrant MH, and the dotted Lines are their Secants •, and therefore they may be pricked down by means of a Scale or Sector, in supposing the Radius HB 100 : for then the Tangent H 1 of 15 Deg. will be twenty-seven of the said Parts ; H 2, the Tangent of 30 Deg. will be 58 •, H 3, the Tangent of 45 Deg. (equal to Radius) will be 100 ; H 4, the Tangent of 60 Deg. will be 173 •, and H 5, the Tangent of 75 Deg. will be 373 Parts. The Divisions on the other half of this Line for the Morning Hour-Lines are the fame.

The Divisions for the halves and quarters of Flours may be found likewise upon the Equinoctial Line, by affuming the Tangents of the correfpondent Arcs, which may be taken from printed Tables of natural Tangents, but from the Table of Secants we can deduce some Abreviations. For example, the Line B 4, which is the Secant of 60 Deg. being double to Radius, if twice B H be laid off from B 4, you will have the Point on the Equinoctial Line thro' which the Hour-Line of 4 must be drawn. The said Secant laid off from 4 to L, will give likewise the Point in the Equinoctial Line thro' which the Hour- Line of 5 must be drawn, &V.

The Points thro' which the half Hours must pass, may be found by means of the Secants of the odd Hours. For example, the Secant B 3, laid off at the Point 3 on the Equinoctial Line, will fall on one side upon the Point for half an Hour paft 4, and on the other side, for half an Hour paft 10; the Secant B 9, will give half an Hour paft 7, and half an Hour paft 1 ; B 11, will give half an Hour paft 8, and half an Hour paft 2; Bi, will give half an Hour paft 3, and half an Hour paft 9 •, B 7, will give half an Hour paft 6, and half an Flour paft 12 ; and lastly, B 5 will give half an Hour paft n, and half an Hour paft 5.

The Division of the Equinoctial Line ferves to make the Horizontal and Vertical Dials exactly, but chiefly the undeclining Regular Dials, viz. the Polar East and West ones : for there need nothing be added to the facility of conftructing Equinoctial Dials, because the Angles that the Hour-Lines make at the Center of the Dials are all equal between themfelves.

The Angles that the Hour-Lines of a horizontal Dial make with the Meridian in the Center of the Dial, may be found in the following manner by Trigonometry. As Radius is to the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole, So is the Tangent of the Distance of any Hour- Circle from the Meridian, to the Tangent of the Angle that the Hour- Line of that Hour makes with the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, on the Horizontal Dial. For example ; Sup- pole the Angle that the Hour-Lines of I and 11, make with the Meridian on a horizontal Dial for the Latitude of 49 Deg. be required : form a Rule of Proportion whose firstTerm let be the Radius 100000; the second, the Sine of 49 Deg. which is 75471 ; and the third, the Tangent of 15 Deg. (viz. the Tangent of the Distance of the Hour-Circles of 11 and 1 from the Meridian) which is 26597. Now having found the fourth Term 20222, feek it in the Tables of Tangents, and you will find 11 Deg. 26 Min. ftand against it: therefore the Angle that the Hour-Lines of 1 or 11 make with the Meridian, is 11 Deg. 26 Min.

Thus may be found the Angles that all the Flour-Lines, and half Hour-Lines, &V. make; with the Meridian in the Center of a horizontal Dial, viz. by as many Rules of Proportion, as there are Hour-Lines and half Hour-Lines, &c. to be drawn, whose two first Terms are ftanding, to wit, the Radius, and the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole ; and so you have but the third Term to feek in the Tables -, that is, the Tangent of the Hour-Circle's distance from the Meridian, in order to find the 4th Term. You may take the Logarithms of those Terms if you have a mind to it&gt; which will fave the trouble of multiplying and dividing.

The aforsaid Analogy may ferve likewise for vertical Dials, if the Sine Complement of the Elevation of the Pole, which is 41 Deg. about Paris, be made use of for the second Term •, because any vertical Dial at Paris may be confidered as an Horizontal one for the Latitude of 41 Deg.

Moreover, the aforsaid Analogy holds for undeclining Inclining-Dials, if the Sine of the Angle made by the Axis and Meridian -Line at the Center of the Dial be used for the second Term of the Analogy. For Example, Because the Dial B on the Dodecahedron of Figure 2, inclines 63 Deg. 26 Min. you mud fubftradt the Elevation of the Pole, which is 49 Deg. from 63 Deg. 26 Min. and then if you make an horizontal Dial for the Latitude of 14 Deg. 26 Mm. in taking 14 Deg. 26 Min. for the second Term of the Analogy, you may calculate the Angles that all the Hour-Lines make with the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12.

A T A B L E of the Angles that the Hour -Lines make with the Meridian

at the Center of an horizontal Dial,

To draw the principal Lines upon a 'vertical Decliner by Trigonometrical Calculation.

This manner of Calculation confifts in the five following Rules.

The Declination of a Plane being given, to find the Angle that the fubftylar Line makes with the Meridian.

Rule I. As Radius is to the Sine of the Plane's Declination, So is the Tangent Comple- ment of the Latitude, to the Tangent of the Angle made by the fubftylar Line and Meridian in the Center of a vertical Decliner. And the Angle that the fubftylar Line makes with the Horizon at the Foot of the right Style, is the Complement of this Angle. Also the Angle that the Equinoctial Line makes with the Horizon at the Point wherein the Hour-Line of 6 cuts it, is equal to the Angle made by the fubftylar Line and Meridian j and the Angle of the Equinoctial Line and Meridian is it's Complement.

Rule II. To find the Angle which the Axis of the Dial makes with the fubftylar Line, which may be called likewise the Height of the Pole above the vertical Plane ; fay,

As Radius is to the Sine Complement of the Latitude, So is the Sine Complement of the Plane's Declination to the Sine of the Angle required. Note, The Angle that the Axis makes with the right Style, is the Complement of this Angle ; and the Angle that the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle makes with the right -Style, is equal to the Angle that the Axis makes with the Subftyle. Also the Angle made by the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle and the Subftyle, is the Complement thereof.

Rule III. To find the Arc of the Equinoctial or Angle between the fubftylar Line and the Meridian in declining Dials ; that is, the Difference between the Meridian of the Place, and the Meridian of the Plane, for the fubftylar Line is the Meridian of the Plane ; fay,

As Radius is to the Sine of the Latitude, So is the Tangent Complement of the Plane's Declination to the Tangent of an Arc, whose Complement will be that required.

Rule IV. To find the Angle that the Hour-Line of 6 makes with the horizontal Line, and the Meridian in the Center of the Dial ; fay,

As Radius is to the Sine of the Plane's Declination, So is the Tangent of the Latitude, to the Tangent of the Angle that the Hour- Line of 6 makes with the Horizon j the Com- plement of which, is that made by the Hour-Line of 6 and the Meridian.

Rule V. To find the Angles that the Hour-Lines make with the fubftylar Line ; and by this means, the Angles that they make with the Meridian in the Center of a vertical Dial.

This Propofition is founded upon this Gnomonick Principle, viz. that any Plane may be parallel to some Horizon, and confequently will be" an horizontal Dial for that Latitude, the fubftylar Line being the Meridian, from which the proper Hour-Lines must be laid off on both Sides.

But before this can be done, the Angle that the Subftyle makes with the Meridian must be found, hy Rule I. the Elevation of the Pole above the Plane, by Rule IT. the Arc of the Equinoctial between the Subftyle and the Meridian, by Rule III. with the Difference or Degrees of the two first Distances from the Style ; one being between the Subftyle and the Meridian, and the other between the Subftyle and the Hour-Line of 6. Thefe being found, fay,

As Radius is to the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole above the Plane, So is the Tangent of the Distance of any Hour-Circle from the Meridian of the Plane or' Subftylar Line to the Tangent of the Angle made by the Hour-Line of the proposed Hour-Circle and the fub- ftylar Line in the Center of the Dial.

Not^ If the fubftylar Line happens to fall upon any half or whole Hour, then the two first Distances of the Hour-Circles from the fubftylar Line will be each 7 Deg. 30 Min. or

15 Deg. and in this Cafe, the Angles of the Hour-Lines of the Hour-Circles, equally distant on both sides the Hour the fubftylar Line falls upon, will be equal on both sides the fubftylar Line.

The Application of the precedent Rules to a vertical Decliner of 45 Deg. South-weflwardly-y in the Latitude of 49 Beg. (Vide Figure 9.)

The Angle made by the fubftylar Line and the Meridian, will be found by the first Rule

31 Deg. 25 Min *

The Angle of the Axis and fubftylar Line, by Rule IL will be 27 Deg. 38 Min. and the Arc of the Equinoctial between the Meridian of the Place and the Meridian of the Plane, by Rule 111. will be found 52 Deg. 58 Min. and confequently the fubftylar Line falls between the Hour- Lines of 3 and 4 in the Afternoon ; and the Angle made by the Hour-Line of 6 and the Meridian, is 50 Deg. 52 Min.

The Arc of the Equinoctial 52 Deg. 58 Min. being found, fubftract 45 Deg. which is the Arc of the Equinoctial anfwering to the Hour of 3, from it, and the Remainder 7 Deg. 58 Min. will be the Arc of the Distance of the Hour of 3 from the Subftyle, and confequent- ly 7 Deg. 2 Min. is the Distance of the Hour of 4 from the Subftyle.

Therefore to find the Angles that the Hour-Lines make with the Subftyle in the Center of the Dial, you mult begin with one of these Distances, in faying, for Example, As Radius 1 00000 is to the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole above the declining Plane, which in this Example is 27 Deg. 38 Min. whose Sine is 46381, So is the Tangent of 7 Deg. 2 Min. which is 12337, to a fourth Number, which shall be found 5722, viz. the Tangent of 3 Deg. 16 Min. and confequently the Angle that the Hour-Line or 4 makes with the Subftyle, is 3 Deg.

16 Min. and to find the Angle that the Hour-Line of 5 makes with the fubftylar Line, you must first add 15 Deg. to 7 Deg. 2 Min. and feek the Tangent of the Sum 22 Deg. 2 Min. and then proceed, as before, and you will find the Angle made by the Hour-Line of 5 with the fubftylar Line will be 10 Deg. 38 Min. the Angle of the Hour-Line of 6 with the fame, will be 19 Deg. 17 Min. the Angle of the Hour-Line of 7, 30 Deg. 44 Min. and the Angle of the Hour-Line of 8 in the Evening, 47 Deg. 25 Min.

But if the Angles that the said Hour-Lines make with the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12 be required, you must add 31 Deg. 35 Min. to each of the aforsaid Angles ; and confequently the Angle that the Hour-Line of 4 makes with the Meridian, will be 34 Deg. 51 Min. the Hour-Line of 5, 42 Deg. 13 Min. the LIour-Line of 6, 50 Deg. 52 Min. the Hour-Line of 7, 61 Deg. 19 Min. and the Hour-Line of 8, 79 Deg. 10 Min.

Having calculated, in the abovefaid manner, the Angles made by the Hour- Lines on the other side the fubftylar Line, with the said fubftylar Line, you will find the Angle of the Hour-Line of 3, 3 Deg. 45 Min. that of the Hour- Line of 2, 11 Deg. 7 Min. that of the Hour-Line of 1 , 19 Deg. 54 Min. that of the Hour-Line of 1 2, 31 Deg. 25 Min. that of the Hour- Line of 11, 48 Deg. 54 Min. that of the Hour-Line of io, 75 Deg. 7 Min. and that of the Hour-Line of 9, 106 Deg. 48 Min.

Now if 31 Deg. ^S Min. viz. the Subftyle's Distance from the Meridian, be taken from each of these last Angles, then the Angle that the Hour-Line of 9 makes with the Meridian, will be 75 Deg. 13 Min. that of the Hour-Line of 10, 43 Deg. 2 1 Min. that of the Hour- Line of 1 1, 17 Deg. 19 Min. and so of others.

When the Declination of a Plane is very great, the Center of a Dial cannot then be pricked down conveniently thereon, since the Hour-Lines will fall too near each other. And in this Cafe they may be drawn between two horizontal Lines ; for the Angles that the Hour-Lines make with the said horizontal Lines, are the Complements of the Angles that the refpective Hour-Lines make with the Meridian.

How to find the Declination of an upright or vertical Wall or Plane, by means of the Shadow

of the Extremity of an Iron Rod or Style.

Because the Exactnefs of Vertical Dials chiefly depend on the Knowledge of the Situa- tions of the Walls on which they are to be made or i'et up against, with refpct to the Hea- vens, that is, their Declinations : therefore it is very neceflary that their Declinations be found with all poflible Exactnefs, which we shall endeavour to do before we clofe this Chapter.

Preparations.

You must first fix an Iron Rod or Wire in the Wall obliquely, having it's Extremity (harp and pretty distant from the Wall, as the Rod A I, whose Extremity I is fharp. Vide Fig. 9.

Secondly, The Foot H of the Style must be pricked down upon the Dial Plane. This Point is that wherein the Perpendicular FI I drawn from the Extremity of the Rod or Style meets the Plane of the Dial. You must likewise draw the vertical Line H F pafling th.ro' that Point, which reprefents the perpendicular Vertical to the Plane of the Dial, and also the horizontal Line DC cutting the said vertical Line at right Angles, in the Foot of the

Style H. This being done, measure eXaclly the Length of the right Style HI orHF, its equal, that is, measure the Distance from the Foot of the Style to its Extremity, with fome Scale divided into small Parts. Then having observed where the Extremity Of the Shadow of the Iron Rod falls upon the Wall at different Times in the fame Day, as at the Points 2, 3, 4 ■■&gt; you muff measure the Distance of eacli Extremity of the Shadow from the hori- zontal Line with the Scale: as, for example, the Distance from the Point 2 to the Point Z in the horizontal Line •, as likewise the Distance from the fame Point to the Vertical Line passing thro' the Foot of the Style ; as from the Point 2 to the Point X ; and then you must let down the Numbers found orderly in a Memorial, that so they may be made use of in the following Analogies.

But to prick down upon the Wall nicely the Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod or Style, you must use the following Method, which I had from M. de la Hire. Fatten a little Tin-Plate, having a round hole therein, near the Extremity of the Rod, in such manner, that the Extremity of the Iron Rod be exactly in the Center of the faicl round hole, and the Plate expofed directly to the Sun ; then you will fee a little Oval of Light upon the Wall in the Shadow of the Plate: and if you draw quickly with a Pencil, a light Track upon the' Wall about the laid Oval of Light, which is moving continually ; the Center of the said Oval may be taken lor the true Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod.

Having thus marked the Points 2, 3, 4, whereat the Extremity of the Shadow falls, you must find the Amplitude, and the Sun's Altitude anfwering to each of them, and fet them down in the Memorial.

Note, The Amplitude that we mean here, is the Angle that the height of the Style or Rod makes with the Line drawn from each of the observed Extremities of the Shadow to the horizontal Line (for each of these Lines reprefents upon the Wall the vertical Circle the Sun is in at the Time of Obfervation). This Angle is marked H F Z in the Figure, and is the Amplitude correfpondent to the Point 2. Now to find this Angle, you must fay, As the Height of the Rod or Style is to the Distance from the Extremity of the Shadow to the vertical Line, So is Radius to the Tangent of the Amplitude* And by making this Analogy for each Extremity of the Shadow of the Rod observed at different Times, the correfpondent Amplitudes will be had, and must be fet down in one Column in the Memorial.

Then to find the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon, you must take the Complement of the Amplitude, and the Distance of each observed Extremity of the Shadow from the hori- zontal Line. This being done, fay, As the Height of the Style is to the Sine Complement of the Amplitude, So is the Distance of the Extremity of the Shadow from the horizontal Line, to the Tangent of the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon, which being found for the Times of each Obfervation of the Shadow of the Iron Rod, fet them down orderly in one Column.

Note, If the Extremity of the Shadow observed falls upon the vertical Line passing thro* the Foot of the Style, there will then be no Amplitude ; and in this Cafe you will have the Sun's Altitude by one. Rule only, in faying, As the Height of the Style is to the Distance of the Extremity of the Shadow from the Foot of the Style, So is Radius to the Tangent of the Sun's Altitude.

After this, you must find the Distance of each observed vertical or azimuth Line from the Meridian ; and in order to do this, the Sun's Declination must be had for the Times wherein the Extremities of the Shadow were taken : if it be at the time of the Solftices, the lame Declination will ferve for all the Extremities of the Shadow observed in one Day ; but it the Sun be in the Equinoctial, you must have his Declination for each time of the Obfer- vation of the Extremity of the Shadow, in taking the Parts proportional.

Now the Sun's Declination being had, you must take the Complement thereof, as like- wife the Complement of his Altitude, and the Complement of the Latitude, and add them all three together ; and take half the Sum, and from this half Sum take the Complement of the Sun's Altitude, and the Remainder will be a first Difference : and moreover, if the Com- plement of the Latitude be taken from the said half Sum, you will have a second Dif- ference. This being done, fay, As the Sine Complement of the Latitude is to the Sine of the first Difference, so is the Sine of the second Difference to a fourth Sine : and as the Sine Complement of the Sun's Altitude is to Radius, so is that fourth Sine found to another Sine; which being multiplied by Radius, and the Square Root of the Product, will be half the Distance of the Extremity of the Shadow observed, or of its vertical Line from the Me- ridian or Hour-Line of 12.

This Distance being found in Degrees and Minutes, we may have the Declination of any Wall, which here is the Angle H F E, by some one of the five following Cafes.

First, If the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style is between the vertical Line pafilng thro* the Foot of the Style, and the Hour- Line of 12, as is the Point 2 in this Example, which was observed some time in the Afternoon •, then you must add the Amplitude to the Distance of the vertical Line from the Meridian.

Secondly* If the Extremity of the Shadow falls beyond the vertical Line parting thro' the Foot of the Style, as here the Point 3 does, you must fubftract the Amplitude from the Di- stance of the vertical Line from the Meridian, to have the Declination of the Wall.

Thirdly, If the observed Extremity of the Shadow be found exactly upon the vertical Line patting thro' the Foot of the Style, then there will be no Amplitude, and its Distance from the Meridian will be the Wall's Declination.

Fourthly, If the Extremity of the Shadow is on this side of the Meridian, as here the Point 4 is, which was observed before Noon, the Amplitude will be greater than the Decli- nation •, to have which, you must fubftraet from the Amplitude the Distance of the Vertical Line from the Meridian.

Fifthly, If the Extremity of the Shadow was observed precifely at Noon, the Wall's Declination would be equal to the Amplitude •, and since the Snn's Declination, and the Latitude is known, it will be eafy to know whether the Altitude observed any Day be the greateft for that Day, that is, whether it be the Sun's Meridian Altitude. Note, What we have said is eafily applicable to all Declinations, whether East wards or West wards, if the Line of Midnight be used inftead of that of Noon, when Walls decline North-East or North-West.

An Example will make all this manifest : in order to which, let us suppose, that, in a Place where the North-Pole is elevated, or, which is all one, where the Latitude of the Place is 48 Deg. 50 Min. we have observed the Extremity of the Shadow of an Iron-Rod Upon a very upright Wall about the time of the Summer Solftice, whose Distance from the vertical Line passing thro' the Foot of the Style is 100 equal Parts of some Scale, and the Height of the Style 300 of the fame Parts.

'The Operation by Logarithms.

The Logarithm of 100 — — — — 20000000

The Logarithm of Radius — — — — 1 00000000

The Sum — — — — — 120000000

The Logarithm of 300 — — — — 24771212

The Remainder — — — — 95228788

This Number remaining is the Logarithm Tangent of 18 Deg. 26 Min. for the Amplitude of the observed Extremity of the Shadow, and the Complement thereof, is 71 Deg. 34 Min.

Then to find the Sun's Altitude, suppose the Distance from the Extremity of the Shadow observed to the horizontal Line be 600 of the aforsaid equal Parts.

The Logarithm Sine of 71 Deg. 34 Min. — — — 99771253

The Logarithm of 600 — — — — 27781512

The Sum — — — — I2 755 2 7^5

The Logarithm of 300 — — — • — 24771212

The Remainder — — — — 102 78 1553

This remaining Number is the the Logarithm Tangent of 62 Deg. 13 Min. the Sun's Altitude.

Deg. Min.
Then suppose the Complement of the Latitude is — — — 41 10

The Complement of the Declination of the Sun — — 66 45

The Complement of the Height of the Sun ■ — — — - 27 45

The Sum — —

Half of the Sum — —

The Complement of the Latitude —

The flrft Difference — —

Again, taking from — — —

The Complement of the Sun's Altitude — ■

We fh all have the second Difference — — 40 4

The firfi Analogy.
The Logarithm Sine of the firfb Difference 26 Deg. 41 Min. — — 96523035
The Logarithm Sine of the second Difference 40 Deg. 4 Min. — — 98086690

The Sum — - — — - — — 194609725

The Logarithm-Sine of 41 Deg. ip Min'. fubftracl: — — 9 l88 39 x 9

The fourth Sine remaining — ■— — 96425806

This last Number is the Logarithm Sine Of 76 Deg. 4 Min. which being doubled, makes 152 Deg. 8 Min. but since this Angle is obtuse, you must fubftract it from 180 Deg. and the Remainder 27 Deg. 52 Min. is the Distance of the observed vertical Circle or Line from the Meridian : and because the Extremity of the Shadow 2, for which the Calculation is supposed to be made, is between the vertical Line palling thro' the Foot of the Style, and the Hour- Line of 12 ; you must add the aforsaid 27 Deg. 52 Min. to the calculated Amplitude 18 Deg. 26 Min. to have the Declination 46 Deg. 18 Min.

The Declination of a Wall may be found by one Obfervation of the Extremity of the Shadow of a Style or Iron-Rod only •, but it is better to make several Obfervations thereof in one Day, or in different Days, that so the Declination of the Wall may be calculated for each Obfrrvation, and the proportional Parts of the Differences arifing may be taken : if, for Example, the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style hath been fix times observed, you must take the one-fixth Part of the Differences produced by the Calculations, in order to have the true Declination of the Wall.

Of the ConfiruBiion and Uses of the Declinatory^

THIS Instrument is made of a very even Plate of Brass or dry Wood, in figure of a Fig. 16, Rectangle, about one Foot in Length, and seven or eight Inches in Breadth. We draw the Diameter of a Semi-Circle upon it parallel to one of the longeft Sides of this Plate, viz. parallel to A B, and we divide this Semi-Circle into two Quadrants* containing 90 Degrees each, which we divide fometimes into half Degrees, the Degrees being both ways numbered from the Point H, as may be feen in the Figure of the Instrument. When this is done, we add an Index I to the said Plate, which turns about the Center G, by means of a turned headed Rivet. On the fiducial Line of this Index we fcrew a Compass, with the North-Side towards the Center G, and likewise fometimes a small horizontal Dial, whose Hour-Line of 12 turns to the Center G. I shall fay no more as to the Conftruction of this Instrument, it being eafy to underftand, from what has been said elsewhere in this Treatife.

The Use of this Instrument in taking the Declinations of Planes.

A Plane is said to decline, when it does not face directly one of the Cardinal Parts of the World, which are North, South, East, and West •, and the Declination thereof is mea- fured by an Arc of the Horizon comprehended between the Prime Vertical, and the vertical Circle parallel to the said Plane, if it be vertical, viz. perpendicular to the Horizon ; for if a Plane be inclined, it can be parallel to no vertical Circle. And in this Cafe, the Arc of the Horizon comprehended between the Prime Vertical, and that vertical Circle that is parallel to the Base of the inclined Plane, or else the Arc of the Horizon computed between the Meridian of the Place, and the vertical Circle perpendicular to the Plane, is the Plane's Declination.

There are no Planes, unlefs vertical or inclined ones, that can decline ; for a horizontal Plane cannot be said to decline, because the upper Surface thereof directly faces the Zenith, and it's Plane turns towards all the four Cardinal Parts of the World indifferently.

Now, in order to find the Declination of a Plane, whether vertical or inclined, you must draw first a level Line thereon, that is, a Line parallel to the Horizon, and lay the Side A B of the Instrument along this Line : then you must turn the Index and Compass 'till the Needle fixes itfelf directly over the Line of the Declinatior or Variation thereof on the Bottom of the Box. This being done, the Degrees of the Semi Circle cur by the fiducial Line of the

Index gives the Plane's Declination towards that Coaft fhewn by the writing graved upon the Instrument. If, for example, the Index be found fixed upon the 45th Degree, between II and Bj and the end of the Needle reflecting the North be directly over the Point S of its Line of Declination ; in this Cafe, the Plane declines 45 Deg. South- weft ward I y : but if in the fame Situation of the Declinatory, the opposite end or the Needle, reflecting the South, fhould have fixed itfelf over the Point S of the laid Line of Declination, then the Plane would have declined 45 Deg. North-eaftwardly.

.Again, If the Index be round between A and H, and the North-end of the Needle over the Point S of its Line of Declination, then the Declination or the Plane will be South- eaftwardly ; but if in this Situation of the Index, the South-end of the Needle fixes itfelf over the laid Point S, then the Plane will decline North-weftwardly.

If the Sun fhines upon the Wall or Plane whose Declination is fought, and the time of the Day be known exactly by some good Dial, as the Aftronomic Ring Dial, we may find the Declination of the Wall or Plane by means of a small horizontal Dial fattened on the Index, which must be turned 'till the Style of the Dial mews the exact Time of the Day ; and then the Degrees of one of the Quadrants cut by the Fiducial Line of the Index, will be the Wall or Plane's Declination : and by this means may be avoided the Errors caused by the Compass, as well on account of the Variation of the Needle, as becaule of Iron concealed near the Compass.

When the Sun fhines upon a Wall, we may find likewise the Subftyle or proper Meridian by means of obferving two Extremities of the Shadow of an Iron-Rod, in the manner we have above mentioned, and afterwards the Declination ; or else we may draw a meridian Line upon an horizontal Plane near the Wall, which being produced to the Wall, will be a means to find the Declination thereof, as also to find the Variation of the Needle. Now the manner of drawing a Meridian Line is thus : 5.M. Draw a Circle upon some level Plane, (suppose this to be reprefented by the Figure M)

and in the Center thereof fet up a fharp Style very upright, or else fix a crooked Style in fome Place, as A, in such manner, that a Line drawn from its fharp end to the Center of the said Circle be perpendicular to the Plane of the Circle ; which you may do by a Square. But before you draw the Circle, it is neceffary to know the Length of the Shadow of the Style, that so the Circumference of the Circle may be drawn thro' the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style oblerved some time before Noon. Now the Circle being drawn, fup- pofe the Extremity of the Shadow touches the Circumference of the Circle in the Morning at the Point G, and about as many Hours after Noon as when in the Morning you observed the Extremity of the said Shadow in G before Noon, you find the Extremity of the Shadow again to touch the Circumference of the Circle in F ; then if the Arc F G be biftcted in the Point C, and the Diameter B C be drawn, this Diameter will be a meridian Line.

If you have a mind to find a meridian Line when the Sun is in the equinoctial Line, there is no need of drawing a Circle, for all the Extremities of the Shadow of the Style will then be in a right Line, as ED, which is the common Section of the Equinoctial and the horizontal Plane ; and so any right Line, as B C, cutting E D at right Angles, will be a meridian Line.

Thus having drawn a meridian Line, if the Hour-Line of 1 2 of a horizontal Dial be placed so as to coincide therewith, we may have, the Time ol the Day thereby : and there- lore if at the fame time the Index of the Declinatory be turned fo, that the small horizontal Dial faftened thereon fhews the fame Hour or Part, then the Degrees of the Circumference of the Instrument cut by the Index, will fhew the Declination of the Wall or Plane. Or else you may produce the abovefaid meridian Line 'till it cuts the declining Plane, for then it will make two unequal Angles with the horizontal Line drawn upon the Plane, viz. an acute and obtuse Angle, which being measured with all the Exactnefs poffible, the Difference between either of these Angles and a right Angle, will be the Declination of the Plane. For Example, if the acute Angle be 50 Deg. and confequently the obtuse one 130 Deg. then the Difference between either of them and a right Angle, will be 40 Deg. for the Declination of the Plane.

If you have a mind to find the Variation of the Needle, apply one of the Sides of the square Box of the Compass along the meridian Line drawn on the Plane ; and when the ^Needle is at Rest, obferve how many Degrees the North Point thereof is distant from the Flower-de-luce of the Card -, and these Degrees will be the Needle's Declination or Variation ; but this Variation will not last long, for it changes continually. Note, When the Declina- tions of Planes be taken with a Compass, you must have regard to the Variation of the Needle, in letting it Rest over a Line fhewing the Variation, which is drawn commonly on the Bottom of the Compass-Box.

The Use of the Declinatory in taking the Inclinations of Planes.

This Instrument ferves to take the Inclinations of Planes, as well as their Declinations, that is, the Angles the Planes make with the Horizon, and for this end there is a little Hole in the Center G, having a Plumb-Line faftened therein.

The 17th Figure mews the manner of taking the Declinations aud Inclinations of Planes. The Plane A, of this Figure, whereon the Declinatory is applied, is a vertical Meridional undeclining Plane. The Plane B declines South North-weftwardly 44 Degres. The Plane C, is a direct West one. The Plane D, declines 45 Degrees North-weftwardly. And the other Declinations are taken in the fame manner, in applying the Side A B of the Declina- tory to them, so that the Plane of the Semi-circle be parallel to the Horizon.

Now to measure the Angle of a Plane's Inclination, you must apply some one of the other Sides of the Instrument to the Plane or Wall, and keeping the Plane of the Semi-circle per- pendicular to the Horizon, fee what Number of Degrees of the Circumference thereof the Plumb-Line plays upon, for these will be the quantity of the said Angle of Incli- nation.

If, for example, the Side CD be applied to the Plane E, and the Plumb-Line plays upon the Line G H, then the said Plane will be parallel to the Horizon. But if the Side CAof the Instrument being applied on the Plane F, and the Plumb Line plays, as per Fi- gure, this Plane inclines 45 Degrees upwards. Again, If the Instrument being applied to the Plane G, and the Plumb-Line plays upon the Diameter, then this Plane is vertical. And lastly, If the Side AC, being applied on the Plane H, and the Plumb-Line plays as per Fi- gure, then the Inclination thereof will be 45 Deg* downwards.

CHAP. III.

Of the ConjlruSlion and Uses of Instruments, for drawing upon Dials the Arcs of the Signs, the Diurnal Arcs, the Babylonick and Italian Hours, the Almacanters, and the Meridians of principal Cities,

WE now proceed to defcribe upon Dials certain Lines which the Shadow of the Ex- tremity of the Style pafTes over, when the Sun enters into each of the 12 Signs of the Zodiack.

Of the Trigon of Signs i

The first Figure reprefents the Triangle or Trigon of Signs, made of Brass or any other "Plats 23. solid Matter of a bigness at pleafure. The Conftruction of this is thus: First draw the Fig. 1. Line a b, reprefenting the Axis of the World, and ac perpendicular thereto, reprefen' ng the Radius of the Equinoctial, and about the Point a defcribe the circular Arc dc e at plea- fure. This being done, reckon 23 4 Deg. both ways from the Point c upon the said Arc, for the Sun's greateft Declination, and draw the two Lines, a d, a e, for the Summer and Winter Tropicks ; likewise draw the Line d e, which will be bifected by the Radius of the Equinoctial in the Point 0, about which, as a Center, draw a Circle, whose Circumference paries thro' the Points d and e of the Tropicks, and divide the Circumference thereof in 12 equal Parts, beginning from the Point d. Then thro' each Point ofDivision equally distant from d and e, draw occult Lines parallel to the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle. Thefe Lines will interfect the Arc dc in the Points thro' which and the Center a Lines being drawn, these Lines will reprefent the beginnings of the Signs of the Zodiack, at 30 Deg. distance from each other,

But to divide the Signs into every 10th or 5th Degree, you must divide the Circumference of the Circle into 36 or 72 equal Parts. After this, we denote the Characters of the Signs upon each Line, as appears /w Figure. And when the Trigon is divided into every 10th or 5th Degree, we place the Letter of the Month to the first io Degrees of each Sign agreeing therewith.

But the Trigon of Signs may be readier made by the means of a Table of the Sun's Decli- nation j for having drawn the two Lines ab and a c at right Angles, lay the Center of a Protractor on the Point a, with its Limb towards the Point C\ and keeping it fixed thus, count 23 ~ Deg. on both sides the Radius a c, for the Tropicks of 25 and Vf, 20 Deg. 12 Min. for the beginnings of the Signs si, n, t and ,sr, and 11 Deg. 30 Min for «, m m. and X. And in this manner we divide the Spaces for each Sign into every 10th or 5th Deg. by means of the following Table of the Sun's Declination. Note, The Equinoctial Points of r and *± are placed at the end of the Radius of the Equinoctial a c.

By this Table we may know the Sun's Declination and Distance from the Equinoctial Points each Day at Noon, in every Degree of the Signs of the Zodiack, the greateft Decli- nation being 23 Deg. 3oMin. tho' at prefent it is but about 23 Deg. 29 Min. but a Minute difference is of no confequence in the Use of Dials. The Degrees of the firfl Column to the Left-hand, are for the Signs kt down upon the Top of the Table, and the Degrees in the lait Column numbered upwards, are for the Signs fet at the Bottom of the Table.

Of the Trigon of Diurnal Arcs.

'The second Figure reprefents the Trigon of Diurnal and Noclumal Arcs. Thefe are drawn upon Sun-Dials by Curve-Lines, like the Arcs of the Signs, and by means of them the Shadow of the Style fhews how many Hours the Sun is above the Horizon, in any given Day, that is, the Length of the Day, and confequently the Length of the Night too -, for this is the Com- plement of that to 24 Hours.

The Trigon of Signs is the fame for all Latitudes, since the Sun's Declination is the fame ior all the Earth : but the Diurnal Arcs are different for every particular Latitude, and we draw as many of these Arcs upon a Dial, as there are Hours of Difference between the longeft and fhorteft Days of the Year.

Now to conftrutt the Trigon of Diurnal Arcs upon Brass or any other solid Matter, first draw the right Line R Z for the Radius of the Hour-Line of 12, or of the Equinoctial ; and about the Point R, with any Opening of your Compassts taken at pleafure, dcfcribe the circular

Chap. 3. of Sun-F)ials. 231

circular Arc T SV, and lay off both ways thereon from the Point S, two Arcs, each equal to the Complement of the Latitude. For Example, if the Latitude be 49 Deg. make the Arcs S V, and ST, of 41 Deg. each. This being done, draw the right Line T X V, and about the Point X, as a Center, defcribe the Circumference of a Circle TZVY, which divide into 48 equal Parts by dotted Lines, drawn parallel to the Radius of the Equinoctial R Z: then these Lines will cut the Diameter T X V in Points, thro' which and the Point R, you may draw the Radius's of the Hours. And since the Jongeft Day at Paris is 16 Hours, and the fhorteft 8, you need but draw four Radius's on one Side the Line R Z, arfd a like Number on the other Side.

Moreover, the Angles that all the Radius's make at the Point R may be found Trigono- metrically, by the following Analogy, viz. As Radius is to the Tangent Complement of the Latitude, So is the Tangent of the Difference between the Semidiurnal Arc at the time of the Equinox and the Arc proposed, to the Tangent of the Sun's requifite Declination. For Example; Suppose it be required to draw upon the Trigon the diurnal Arc of 11 or 13 Hours, the Semidiurnal Arc is 5 t Hours, or 6 l Hours, and the Day of the Equinox the diurnal Arc is 12 Hours ; and confequently the Semidiurnal Arc is 6 Hours, and the Difference is half an Hour : therefore Radius must be put for the first Term of the Analogy, the Tan- gent of 41 Deg. (viz. the Complement of the Latitude of Paris) for the second Term, and the Sine of 7 Deg. 30 Min. for the third Term. Now the fourth Term being found, the Sun's Declination is 6 Deg. 28 Min. South, when the Day at Paris is 11 Hours long •, and 6 Deg. 28 Min. North, when the Day is 13 Hours •, and making three other Analogies, you will find that the Declination of the diurnal Arc of 10 Hours and 14 Hours, is 12 Deg. 41 Min. of 9 Hours and 15 Hours, 18 Deg. 25 Min. and of 8 Hours and 16 Hours, 23 Deg. 30 Min.

Of the 'Trigon with an Index.

The third Figure reprefents the Trigon of Signs put upon a Rule or Index A, in order Fig. 3. to draw the Arcs of the Signs upon great Dials. The diurnal Arcs may be drawn likewise upon this Trigon •, but the Arcs of the Signs and diurnal Arcs too must not be drawn upon one and the fame Dial, for avoiding Confufion. In. the Center of the Index there is a little Hole thro' which is put a Pin, that so the Instrument may turn about the Center of a Dial. The Trigon (Tides along the Index, and may be fixed in any part thereof by means of the Screw B. The Arcs of the Signs with their Characters are round about the Circumference, and there is a fine Thread fixed in the Center thereof, in order to extend over the Radii quite to the Hour-Lines of a Dial, as we shall by and by explain.

The fourth Figure reprefents one half of a horizontal Dial, having the Morning Hour- R S-4« Lines to 12 o'Clock thereon, and the Equinoctial Line CD. This being enough of the Dial, for explaining the Manner of drawing the Arcs of the Signs thereon, by means of Fi- gure 5, which reprefents a Trigon of Signs drawn upon a Plate, on which the Hour-Lines of an horizontal Dial are adjufted in the following manner

Take the Length of the Axis V R of the horizontal Dial between your Compasses, and lay it off on the Axis of the Trigon from O to C •, after this, take the Distance from the Center V of the Dial to the Point C, wherein the Equinoctial Line cuts the Hour-Line of 12, and lay it off on the Trigon from C to a, and draw lightly the Line c a 12, cutting all the seven Lines of the Trigon. This being done, take upon this Line the Distance from the Point c to the Interferon of the Summer Tropick, and lay it off from the Center V of the Dial on the Hour-Line of 12, and you will have one Point thro' which the Summer Tropick must pass ; likewise take the Distance from the Point c to the Interferon of the Parallel of if, and lay it off on the Flour-Line of 12, from the Center of the Dial, and you will have a Point on the said Hour-Line thro' which the Parallel of u must pass •, likewise affume all the other Diftancc-s on the Trigon, and lay them off fuccemvely on the Hour-Line of 12 of the Dial, from the Center to the Point thro' which the Winter Tropick passes, which must be the most distant from the Center of the Dial, and you will have the Points in the Hour-Line of 12 thro' which each of the Parallels of the Signs must pass. And by proceeding in this manner with the other Hour-Lines, you will have Points in them thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass. For Example, Affume on the Hour-Line of 1 1 of the Dial, the Distance from the Cen- ter thereof to the Point wherein the Equinoctial Line cuts it, and lay this Distance off upon the Trigon from c towards a, and draw the right Line C 1 1 ; then take the Distances from the Point c to the Interferon of each of the Parallels of the Signs, and lay them off from the Center of the Dial, on the Hour-Line of 11, to the Points 2 2, t£c. and those will be Points in the Hour-Line of 11, thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass. Underftand the fame for others.

But because the Hour-Line of 6 is parallel to the Equinoctial Line, make this likewise parallel to the Radius of the Equinoctial a on the Trigon : and to prick down the Line for the Hour of Seven in the Evening, defcribe an Arc about the Point C, as a Center, from the Line for the Hour of 6 to that for the Hour of 5 •, and lay off that Arc on the other Side of the Line for the Hour of 6, and then you may draw the Hour-Line of 7, which will not meet the Summer Tropick. Finally, The Line for the Hour of 8 must make the fame Angle with the Line of the Hour of 6, as the Line for the Hour of .4 does ;

but it is ufelefs to draw this Line for the Latitude of 49 Deg. bccaufe this Line being paral- lel to the Tropick of as, cannot cut any one Radius to the Signs. Now the Points thro' which the Arcs of the Signs muftpass, being found on the flour-Lines of the Dial, you muffc join all those that appertain to the fame Sign with an even hand ; andycu will have the curved Arcs of the Signs, whose Characters must be marked upon the Dial, as per Figure. Note We fometimes fet down the Names ol the Months, and of some remarkable moveable Feafts upon the Dial. The Arcs of the Signs are drawn upon vertical Dials in this manner ; but here the Winter Tropick must be nigheft to the Center of the Dial, and the Summer Tropick furtheft distant from it.

If the Arcs of the Signs or diurnal Arcs are to be drawn upon a great Dial, the third Fi-gure must be used in the following manner :

turned and fixed upon any Hour-Line, as may be feen in Figure 6 : then having fixed the Center of the Trigon upon the Index, at a Distance from • the Center of the Index equal to the Distance from the Center of the Dial to the Extremity of the Axis there- of, by means of the Screw R ; take the Thread on one Hand, and with the other raife or lower the Instrument upon the Plane of the Dial, so that the Thread extended along the Radius of the Equinoctial of the Trigon, meets the Point wherein some Hour-Line cuts the Equinoctial Line of the Dial, and in this Situation fix the Index. This being done, extend the Thread along the Radius's of the Trigon, and prick down the Points upon each Hour-Line of the Dial, thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass, both above and below the Equinoctial Line, as we have done on the Hour- Line of 12 of the Dial reprefent- cd in Figure 6. And if you do thus on all the Hour-Lines fucceffively one after the other, and the Points marked thereon appertaining to the fame Sign, be joined by an even Hand, you will have the Parallels of the Signs upon the Surface of the Dial. But to make the Points on the Hour-Line of 6, the Instrument must be turned so that the Fiducial Line of the Index be upon the Hour-Line of 12, and the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle of the Trigon parallel to the Hour-Line of 6. The Instrument being thus fixed, extend the Thread along the Radius's of the Signs, until it cuts the Hour-Line of 6, and the Points where it cuts the said Hour- Line, will be those thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass in that Hour-Line.

When the Arcs of the Signs are drawn on one side of the Dial, for example, on the Morning Hour-Lines, you may lay off the fame Distances from the Center on the Hour-Lines of the ether side the Meridian ; as the Points denoted on the Hour-Line of 1 1 must be laid off on the Hour-Line of 1, those on the Hour-Line of 10 on the Hour- Line of 2 ', and fo draw the Arcs of the Signs on the other side of the Meridian. Note, The Arcs of the Signs are drawn upon declining Dials in the fame manner, if the Subftylar Line be made ufeof in- ftead of the Meridian, and the Distances from the Center be taken equal upon those Hour- Lines equally distant on both sides of the Subftyle from it.

If the diurnal Arcs are to be pricked down upon a Dial inftead of the Arcs of the Signs, that is, the Length of the Days, we may likewise put thereon the Hour of the Sun's rifing and fetting, if the Length of the Day be divided into two equal Parts. For example, when the Day is 15 Hours long, the Sun fets half an Hour pafb 7 in the Afternoon, and rifes half an Hour paft 4 in the Morning ; and so of others.

If the Arcs of the Signs are to be drawn upon Equinoctial Dials, as on that of Figure 7, Plate 22, take the length of the Axis of the Style AD, and lay it off upon the Axis of the Trigon (of Figure 5. Plate 23.) from O to P, and draw the Line PN parallel to the Ra- dius of the Equinoctial ; this* shall cut "the Summer Tropick and two x other Parallels : then take the Distance from the Point P to the Inter feet ion.of the Tropick of as ; and with that Distance about the Center A of the Dial draw a Circle^ which shall reprefent the Tropkrk of 2?. Take likewise the two other Distances on the Parallel of the Trigon, and draw two other Circles about the Center of the Dial, the one for the Parallel of u and Si, and the other fipr that of « and "3?, which may be drawn upon an upper Equinoctial Dial. But if this was an under Equinoctial Dial, then the above defcribed Circles would reprefent the Parallels of n\, f, v$, .^ and x : but as for the Parallels of &lt;r and ^, they cannot be drawn upon Equinoctial Dials, because when the Sun is in the Plane of the Celeftial Equator, his Rays fall parallel to the Surfaces of Equinoctial Dials, and the Shadows of their Styles are indefinitely protended.

The Horizontal Line is thus drawn : First lay off the Style's length on the Hour-Line of 6, and about the Extremity D thereof, defcribe the Arc E F (upwards for an upper Dial) equal to the Latitude, viz. 49 Deg. for Paris, and draw the Line D F, which shall cut the Meridian in the Point H, thro' which the horizontal Line must be drawn parallel to the Hour-Line of 6, as may be feen in Figure 7, Plate zi.

The Use of this Line is to fhew the rifing and fetting of the Sun at his entrance into the beginning of each Sign. For example, because it cus the Tropick of Cancer on the Dial, in Points thro'' which the Hour-Line of 4 in the Morning, and 8 in the Evening pass •, therefore the Sun rifes the Day of the Solftice at 4 in the Morning, and fets at 8 in the

Evening at Paris. Underftand the fame of others.

Chap, 3. of Sun-Dials. 233

To draw the Arcs of the Signs upon Polar Dials.

The Dial being drawn (as appears in Fig. 6. Plate 22.), the dotted Radii of the Hours continued out 'till they meet the Equinoctial Line mud be laid off fucceflively upon the Ra- dius of the Equinoctial of the Trigon of Signs (Fig. 5. Plate 23.) for drawing as many Per- pendiculars thereon as there are dotted Radii, viz. one for the Hour of 12, and the five others for the Hours of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, which mail cut the Radii of the Signs of the Trigon. This being done, take the Distances from the Radius of the Equinoctial of the Trigon upon the said Perpendiculars, to the Radius's of the other Signs, and lay them off upon the Hour-Lines of the Dial on both sides the Equinoctial Line A B. For Example ; Take the Distance 12 b, and lay it off on the Dial from the Point C upon the Hour-Line of 12, and you will have two Points in the said Line thro' which the Tropicks muff pass. Likewise take the Space on the Trigon upon the Line 5 kf or sf, and lay it off upon the Hour-Lines of 5 and 7 on both sides the Equinoctial Line of your Dial, and you will have Points in the Hour-Lines of 5 and 7, thro' which the Tropicks must pass. And in this manner may Points be found in the other Hour-Lines thro' which the said Tropicks muff pass ; as also the Points in the Hour-Lines thro' which the Parallels of the other Signs must be drawn, which being found must be joined. Note, We have only drawn the two Tropicks in the Figure of this Dial for avoiding Confufion. And the Parallels of the Northern Signs must be drawn underneath the Equinoctial Line, and the Southern Signs above it. Also the diurnal Arcs are drawn in the fame manner as the Arcs of the Signs are.

How to draw the Arcs of the Signs upon East and West Dials.

The Arcs of the Signs are drawn nearly in the fame manner upon East and West Dials as upon Polar ones : for Example, Let it be required to draw the Arcs of the Signs upon the Welt Dial of Figure 8. Plate 22. the dotted Radii of the Flours produced to the Equinoctial Line C D, must be laid off upon the Trigon of Figure 1. (Plate 23.) from the Point a upon the Radius of the Equinoctial, that so Perpendiculars may be drawn upon the Trigon cut- ting the Radius's of the Signs ; after this, you must take upon the said Perpendiculars the Distances from the Radius of the Equinoctial to the Interfection of the Radii of the other Signs, and lay them off upon the Hour-Lines of the Dial, on both sides the Equinoctial Line. For Example, Take the Space 6 &gt;tf, or 2?, and lay it off on both sides the Point D upon the Hour-Line of 6 on the Dial : Proceed in this manner for finding Points in the other Hour- Lines thro' which the Curve Parallels of the Signs must be drawn with an even Hand, fo that the Northern ones be under the Equinoctial Line, and the Southern ones above it. Note, The diurnal Arcs are drawn in the fame manner ; and we have only drawn the two Tropicks thereon for avoiding Confufion.

The Construction of a horizontal Dial, having the Italian and Babylonian Hours j as also the Almacanters and Meridians defcribed upon it.

Having already fhewed the manner of pricking down the Aftronomical Hours upon Sun- Dials, as also the Diurnal Arcs, and Arcs of the Signs, there may yet be several other Circles of the Sphere reprefented upon Dials, being pleafant and useful, which the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style passes over ; as the Italian and Babylonian Hours, the Azimuths, the Almacanters, and the Meridians of principal Cities.

The first Line of the Italian and Babylonian Hours is the Horizon, like as the first Line of the Aftronomical Hours is the Meridian ; for the Italians begin to reckon their Hours when the Center of the Sun touches the Horizon at his fetting, and the Babylonians when he touches the Horizon at his rifing.

A general Method for drawing the Italian and Babylonian Hours upon all kinds of Dials.

The Aftronomical Hour-Lines, and the Equinoctial Line being drawn, as also a diurnal Fig. 7. Arc or Parallel of the Sun's rifing for any Hour, at pleafure, as, for the Hour of 4 at Paris, which Arc will be the. fame as the Summer Tropick, you may find two Points (as we shall iliew here) in each of the aforsaid Lines, viz. one in the Equinoctial Line, and the other in the diurnal Arc drawn, by means of which it will not be difficult to prick down the Italian and Babylonian Hour-Lines •, because they being the common Sections of great Circles of the Sphere and a Dial- Plane, will be reprefented in right Lines thereon.

Now suppose it be required to draw the first Babylonian Hour-Line upon the horizontal Dial of Figure 7, first confider that when the Sun is in the Equinoctial he rifes at 6, and at 7 he has been up juft an Flour ; whence it follows, that the first Babylonian Hour-Line must pass thro' the Point wherein the Aftronomical Hour-Line of 7 cuts the Equinoctial Line ; the second thro' the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 8 j the third thro' that of the Flour- Line of 9 ; and so of others.

But when the Sun rifes at 4 in the Morning, the Point in the Tropick of as, wherein the Hour Line of j cuts it, is that thro' which the first Babylonian Hour-Line must pass ; the Interfection of the i four-Line of 6 in the said Tropick, that thro' which the second Babyloni- an flour- Line must pass •, the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 7 with the said Tropick, that Point thro' which the third Babylonian Hour-Line must pass j and so of others. Then if a

Ruler be laid to the Point wherein the Hour-Line of 5 cuts the Tropick of Cancer, and or the Point in the Equinoctial Line cut by the Hour-Line of 7, and you draw a right Line" thro' them ; this Line will reprefent the fir ft Babylonian Hour-Line. Proceeding in this manner for the other Babylonian Hour-Lines, you will find that the 8th Babylonian Hour-Line will pass thro' the Point the Tropick of Cancer is cut by the Aftronomical Hour-Line of 1 2, and the Point in the Equinoctial cut by the Hour-Line of 12 ; and the 5th Babylonian flour- Line thro' the Point in the said Tropick cut by the Hour-Line of 7 in the Evening, and the Point in the Equinoctial Line cut by the Hour-Line of 5.

One of the Babylonian Hour-Lines being drawn, it is afterwards eafy to draw all the' others ; because they proceed orderly from one Aftronomical Hour-Line to the other, on the Parallel and the Equinoctial Line, as appears /w Figure. Finally, The Sun lets at the 16th Babylonian Hour, when the Day is 16 Hours long : he fets at the 12th when he, is in the Equinoctial •, and at the 8th when the Night is 16 Hours long, because he always rifes at the 24th Babylonian Flour.

You must reason nearly in the fame manner for pricking down the Italian Hour-Lines. Here we always reckon the Sun to fet at the 24th Flour ; and confequently in Summer, when the Nights are but 8 Flours long, he rifes at the 8th Italian Flour ; at the Time of the Equinox he rifes at the 12th Italian Hour ; and in Winter, when the Nights are 16 Hours long, he rifes at the 16th Italian Hour : and therefore the Hour-Line of the 23d Italian Flour must pass thro' the Interfection of the Aftronomical Hour- Line of 7, and the Summer Tropick the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 5, and the Equinoctial Line, and the Inter- fection of the Hour-Line of 3, and the Winter Tropick. But two of the said Points are fufficient for drawing the said Italian Hour-Line. The 2id Italian Hour-Line pafTes thro' the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 6 in the Evening, and Summer Tropick, the Interfec- tion of the Hour-Line of 4, and the Equinoctial Line, and the Interfection of the Hour- Line of 2, and the Winter Tropick. Proceeding on thus, you will find that the 1 8th Italian Hour-Line passes thro' the Points of the 12th Equinoctial Flour, that is, at the Time of the Equinox, it is Noon at the 1 8th Italian Hour j whereas at the Time of the Summer Solftice it is Noon at the 1 6th Italian Flour, and at the Winter Solftice it is Noon at the 20th Italian Flour, in all Places where the Pole is elevated 49 Degrees, as may be feen in the following Table.

A TABLE for drawing the Babylonian and Italian Hour-Lines upon

The Use of the Italian Hour-Lines upon a Dial may be to find the Time of the Sun's fetting, in fubftracting the Italian Hour prefent from 24 •, and by the Babylonian Flours may be known the Time of the Sun's rifing.

How to draw the Almacanters, and the Azimuths.

The Almacanters or Circles of Altitude are reprefented upon the horizontal Dial by cor&gt; centrick Circles, and the Azimuths by right Lines terminating at the Foot of the Style B, which reprefents the Zenith, and is the common Center of all the Almacanters : and there- fore you need but divide the Meridian B XII into Degrees, the Extremity of the Style C being the Center •, and the Tangents of those Degrees on the Meridian will be the Semidiame- ters of the Almacanters, which shall terminate at the two Tropicks. Now to find these Tan- gents, you may use a Quadrant like that of Figure 8, in this manner : Lay off the Length of the Style C B from A to H, and draw the Line II I parallel to the Side A C of the Qua- drant •, then will this Line be divided into a Line of Tangents by Radii drawn from the Cen- ter A to the Degrees of the Limb. And these. Tangents may be taken between your Com- pafTes, and laid off upon the Meridian Line B XII. in such manner, that the 90th Degree anfwers to the Point B. But since this Dial is made for the Latitude of 49 Deg. and so con- fequently the Sun in his greateft Altitude there, is but 64 Deg. 30 Min. you need only prick down this greateft Altitude, which will terminate at. the Summer Tropick.

This being done, if one of the Circles of Altitude be divided into every 10th Deg. be- ginning from the Meridian B XII. which is the 90th Azimuth, and thro' these Points of Division right Lines are drawn to the Foot of the Style B : these right Lines will reprefent the Azimuths or vertical Circles. We have not drawn them upon the Dial, for avoiding Confufion, but they may be eafily conceived. •

Now the Use of the Almacanters is to fhew the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon at any time, and of the Azimuths, to fhew what Azimuth or vertical Circle the Sun is in: and this is known by obferving what Circle of Altitude or Azimuth Line, the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style of the Dial falls upon.

"How to draw the Meridians or Circles of ' TerRestrial Longitude upon the horizontal Dial.

About the Point D, the Center of the Equinoctial Circle, defcribe the Circumference of Fig, 7. a Circle, and divide it into 360 equal Parts or Degrees, or only into 36 Parts, for every 10th Degree 5 then from the Hour-Line of 12, which reprefents the Meridian of the Place for which the Dial is made, viz. Paris, count 20 Deg. West ward for its Longitude, or Di- ftance from the first Meridian pafling thro' the Point G ; on which having wrote the Number 360, prolong the Line G D to E^ in the Equinoctial Line, and afterwards from the Center A draw the first Meridian thro' E, which paries thro' the Ifland de Fer, and so of others. But it will be eafier to draw the Meridians eaftwardly for every 5th or 1.0th Degree, and place those principal Cities upon them whose Longitudes you know : as, for example, Rome is 10 ! Deg. more eaftwardly than Paris, Vienna 15 Deg. more eaftwardly than the said City of Paris, and so of other eminent Cities, whose Differences of Meridians from that of Paris, are known by a good Globe, or Map, made according to the exact Obfervations of the Academy of the Sciences.

The Use of these Meridians on the Dial* is, to tell at any time when the Sun fliines thereon, what Hour then it is under any one of the said Meridians, in adding to the time of Day at Paris, (for which the Dial is made) as many Hours as there are times 15 Deg. of Difference between the Meridians, and 4 Min. of an Hour for every Degree.

For example ; When it is Noon by this Dial at Paris, it will be One a- clock at Vienna* because this City is more to the East than Paris by 15 Deg. and confequently receives the Sun's Light fooner than Paris does. And at Rome it will be 42 Min. paft 12, because it is 10 4- Deg. more eaftward than Paris, and so of others. Thefe Lines of Longitude repre- fent the Meridians of the Places attributed to them ; so that when the Shadow of the Style falls upon any one of them, it will be Noon under that Meridian.

CHAP. IV.

Of the ConflruEiion and Uses of Instruments for drawing Dials

upon different Planes.

Hp HE eighth Figure reprefents a Quadrant made of Brass or any solid Matter, of a big- pig. 8.

f nefs at pleafure, having the Limb divided into 90 Degrees. The Use of this Qua- drant may be to find the Lengths of Tangents, and by this means to divide a right Line into Degrees, as we did the Meridian of the horizontal Dial (Fig. 7.) we may find likewise thereon the Divisions of the Equinoctial Line thro' which the Hour-Lines must pass, in re- gular Dials ; as alio in declining Dials, if the Subftyle falls exactly upon a compleat Hour- Line, by laying off the Length of the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle, from the Center A to H or L, and drawing a right Line, as H I or LM, parallel to the Radius of the Qua- drant AC. For example, the Length L 1 or n, anfwering to 15 Deg. of the Ouadrant, shall be the Tangent of the first Hour-Line's distance from the Meridian or SubftyTe of the Dial, which being laid off upon the Equinoctial Line, whose Radius is supposed equal to AL, will determine a Point therein thro' which the said Hour-Line must be drawn. L 12, anfwering to 30 Deg. of the Limb of the Quadrant, will be the Tangent of the second Hour-Line's distance from the Meridian or Subftyle. L 3, the Tangent of 45 Deg. will be that of the third, and so on. Now if by this means you draw the Hour- Lines of three Hours fucceftively on each side the Meridian or Subftyle, which in all make fix Hours fucceffively •, these are fufficient for finding the Hour Lines of the other Hours, according to the Method before explained in fpeaking of declining Dials, and which may be even applied to all re- gular Dials. For example, If the Hour-Lines of fix Hours fucceffive be drawn upon an horizontal Dial, as, from 9 in the Morning to 3 in the Afternoon, you may draw all the other Hour-Lines of the Dial by the aforsaid Method; as the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Morning, and 4 and 5 in the Afternoon, whose Points in the Equinoctial Line are

fometimes troublefome to be pricked down, and principally the Points of the Hour-Lines of 5 and 7, because of the Lengths of their Tangents.

The Hour-Lines found by the abovefaid Method, which we shall not here repeat, will ferve for finding of others ; and these which are last found being produced beyond the Cen- ter, will give the opposite ones.

The laid Quadrant will ferve moreover as a portable Dial, since the Hour-Lines may be drawn upon it by means of a Table of the Sun's Altitude above die Horizon of the Place for which the Dial is to be made. See more of this in the next Chapter.

The Conflrufiion of a moveable horizontal Dial.

Fl i- 9- This Instrument is compofed of two very fmooth and even Plates of Brass, or other solid

Matter, adjufted upon each other, and joined together by means of a round Rivet in the Center A. The undermost Plate is square, the Length of the Side thereof being from 6 to 8 Inches, and is divided into twice 90 Degrees ; by means of which, the Declinations of Planes may be taken. The upper Plate is round, being about 8 Lines fhorter in Diameter than is the Length of the Side of the under Plate, and having a little Index joined to the Hour-Line of 12, (hewing the Degree of a Plane's Declination.

About the Center A is drawn an horizontal Dial upon the upper Plate, for the Latitude of the Place it is to be used in, and the Axis B is so adjufted, that the Point thereof ter- minates in the Center A, wherein a small Hole is made for a Thread to come thro'. There is also a Compass D fattened to this upper Plate, having a Line in the Bottom of the Box, fhewing the Variation of the Needle.

The Use of the moveable horizontal Dial.

The Use of this Instrument is for drawing Dials upon any Planes, of whatfoever Situa- tions (as on declining inclining Planes, or both) in the following manner :

First draw a Horizontal or level Line upon the proposed Plane •, place that side of the Square along this Line, whereon is wrote the Side applied to the Wall, and turn the horizontal Dial 'till the Needle fettles itfelf over the Line of Declination in the Bottom of the Box : then extend the Thread along the Axis of the Dial 'till it meets the Plane, and the Point wherein it meets the said Plane will be the Center of the Dial. This being done, extend the Thread along each of the Hour-Lines of the horizontal Dial that the Plane can receive, and mark the Points on the horizontal Line upon the Plane, cut by the Thread : then if Lines be drawn from the Center found on the Plane thro' each of those Points, those will be the refpective Hour-Lines that the Thread was extended along on the horizontal Dial, and mult have the fame Figures fet to them. Note, If the Dial be vertical, not having any Declination, the Flour-Line of 12 will be perpendicular to the horizontal Line of the Plane.

The lubftylar Line is drawn thro' the Center of the Plane, and the Angular Point of a Square, one Side whereof being laid along the horizontal Line, and the other Side touching the Style of the horizontal Dial.

Again, The Distance from the Side of the Square laid along the Plane to the Axis, is the Length of the right Style, which being laid along in the fame Place at right Angles to the Subftyle, you may draw the Axis from the Center to the Extremity thereof-, which may be iormed on the Plane by means of an Iron Rod, parallel to the Situation of the Thread ex- tended along the Axis of the horizontal Dial, and must be fuftained by a Prop planted in the Plane perpendicular to the Subftyle.

If you have a mind to have a right Style only, some Point must be fought in the Subftyle distant from the Center of the Dial, proportional to the Bignefs of the Dial, and an Iron- Rod must be fet up perpendicularly therein : but the Point of this Rod must touch the Thread extended along the Axis. Finally, You may give what Figure you pleafe to the Dial, and produce the Flour-Lines as is neceffary, according to the bigness of the Plane. If a great Dial is to be drawn, you may place the Instrument at a Distance from the Plane it is to be drawn on j but then you must take care that it be very level, and the Side thereof parallel to the Plane. And if North Dials are to be drawn, having first found the Declination of the Plane, for Example, 45 Deg. North-weftwardly, place the Index of the Dial over the Degree of the opposite Declination on the square Plate, viz. over 45 Deg. South-eaft- wardly, then invert the whole Instrument, and extend the Thread along the Axis, that so the Center of the Dial may be found upon the Plane underneath the horizontal Line, on which having pricked down the Points thro' which the Hour-Lines mult pats, you may draw them to the Center, and then proceed as before.

The Conjlruftion of the Sciaterra.

F'g- &gt;o. This Instrument is compofed of an Equinoctial Circle A, made of Brass or any other solid

Matter, adjufted upon a Quadrant B. The Point of the Hour of 1 2 of this Equinoctial Circl- is fattened to one end of the Quadrant, and a little Steel Cylinder about two Lines in Diame- ter, fcrving for an Axis, and going thro' the Center of the Equinoctial Circle, is so fixed to the other End C of the Quadrant, as to keep the said Equinoctial Circle fixed at right Angles to the- Quadrant.

The Quadrant is divided into 90 Deg. and is made to Aide on the Top of the Piece L, according to different Elevations of the Pole. The little Ball G is hung at the End of a Thread, whose other End is fattened to the Top of an upright Line on the Piece L, and fo by means of this, and the Ball and Socket H, the Instrument may be fet upright. The Piece I is of Steel, and the End thereof is forced into a Wall or Plane, to fupport the whole Instrument when it is to be used. The Figure D is the Trigon of Signs put on the Axis, and turns about the fame by means of a Ferril. This Trigon has a Thread F fattened to the Extremity thereof, and there is another Thread E fattened, to the Center of the Dial. But note, We do not place the Trigon upon the Axis, unlefs when the Arcs of the Signs are to be drawn upon Dials.

The Use of the Sciaterra.

You must first force the Steel Point I, into the Wall or Plane whereon a Dial is to be drawn, and place the Quadrant to the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole : then you must take a Square Compass^ and lay the Side thereof along the Plane of the Quadrant, and turn the Instrument until the Needle fixes itfelf directly over the Line of Declination ; or if you have not a Compass when the Sun fhines, and the Hour of the Day is known, turn the In- ftrument 'till the Shadow of the Axis falls upon the Hour of the Day upon the Equinoctial Circle.

The Instrument being thus disposed, extend the Thread E from the Center along the Axis 'till it meets the Wall or Plane proposed, and there make a Point for the Center of the Dial : then extending the said Thread over each Hour of the Equinoctial, note the Points wherein it meets the Wall or Plane, and draw Lines from the Center (before found) thro' them, and those will be the Hour-Lines. After this, you may give the Dial what Figure you pleafe, and fet the fame Figures upon the Hour-Lines as are upon the correfpondent Hours of the Equinoctial Circle. Note, The Style is fet up in the manner we have mentioned in fpeaking of the moveable horizontal Lial.

If the Arcs of the Signs, or diurnal Arcs, are to be drawn upon the Dial, you must put the Ferril at the End of the Trigon upon the Axis, and fix it over each Hour of the Equi- noctial one after another by means of the Screw : then extending the Thread F along the Lines appertaining to each Sign, mark as many Points on each Hour-Line on the Wall or Plane, and join them by curve Lines, which shall form the Arcs of the Signs, whereon must be fet their refpective Characters.

The Arcs of the Signs may be otherwise drawn in the following manner : The Akis of the Dial being well fixed, chufe a Point in the fame for the Extremity of the right Style, repre- fenting the Center of the Earth •, and upon this Axis put the Ferril of the Trigon in such manner, that the Extremity of the right Style exactly anfwers to the Vertex of the Trigon, reprefenting the Center of the Equinoctial and the World. Then having fixed the Trigon by means of the Screw prefling against the Ax\s, turn it so that one of the Planes thereof (for the Signs ought to be drawn upon both sides) falls exactly upon the Hour-Lines one after another, and extend the Thread F along the Radius's of the Signs on the Trigon, and by means thereof mark Points upon each Hour-Line of the Wall or Plane : and if these Points be joined, we shall have the Arcs of the Signs.

Proceed thus for drawing North Dials, as likewise inclining and declining Dials, in ob- ferving to invert the Instrument when the Centers of the Dials are downwards.

The Conjlruftion of M. Pardie'j Sciaterra.

This Instrument, which is made of Brass or other solid Matter, of a Bignefs at pleafure* Fig. 11. confifts of four principal Pieces or Parts. The first is a very even square Plate D, called the horizontal Plane, because it is placed horizontal or level when using, having a round Hole E in the Middle, wherein is placed a Pivot, upon which turns the second Piece, called the meridional Plane, in such manner that the said Piece is always at right Angles to the hori- zontal Plane. On the narrow Side C of this Piece is fattened a Plumb- Line, whose use is for placing the Instrument level. The Top of this Piece is cut away into a concave Quadrant, both sides of which are divided into 90 Deg. beginning from the Perpendicular anfwering to the Middle of the Pivot, and there is a pretty deep Slit made down the Middle of this Qua- drant to receive a prominent Piece of a Semi-Circle H, which is the third principal part, that so the said Semi-Circle may be in the fame Plane as the second Piece is, and likewise be raifed or lowered according to different Elevations of the Pole. The Diameter of this Semi-Circle is called the Axis, and the Center thereof is (imply called the Center of the In- ftrument, like as the Thread fattened thereto is called the centeral Thread. The fourth Piece A is a very even Circle, both sides thereof being divided into 24 equal Parts, for the 24 Hours of the Day ; and this is fixed at right Angles to the Semi-Circle H, and so moves a- long with it. One of the Sides thereof is called the upper-side, and the other the under- side. The Trigon of Signs is drawn (in the manner before explained) upon both sides of the Semi- Circle, having the Point A, the Extremity of the Diameter of the Equinoctial Circle, for the Vertex thereof.

The Use of this Instrument.

Having first placed the Points of ir and =a= of" the Semi-Circle upon the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole in the Place for which you would draw a Dial, fet the Instrument upon a fixed horizontal Plane, near to the Wall or Plane you are to draw a Dial on. Then turn the Meridional Plane 'till the Shadow of the Equinoctial Circle falls upon the Day of the Month or Degree of the Sign on the Axis the Sun is in. This being done, the Shadow of the said Axis or Diameter of the Semi-Circle H, will fhew the Time of Day upon the Equi- noctial Circle, and the whole Instrument will be well fituated, the Meridional Plane anfwering to the Meridian of the Heavens, the Equinoctial Circle parallel to the Celeilial Equinoctial Circle, and the Axis of the Dial parallel to the Axis of the World. This being done, extend the Thread F fattened to the Center, along the Axis to the Wall or Plane you are to draw a Dial on, and the Point wherein it meets the Wall will be the Center of the Dial. The said Thread thus extended will likewise give the Pofition of the Style or Axis of the Dial ; for if an Iron Rod be placed in the said Point of Concourfe, and in the fame Situation as the Thread is, this will be the Style of the Dial : but if you have a mind to have a right Style only, you need but fet up a Rod in the Wall or Plane, whose end touches the Thread extended along the Axis of the Instrument ; and this Rod may have what Figure you pleafe given to it, as a Serpent or Bird, provided the Extremity of the Bill there- of meets the said Thread.

Now to mark the Hour-Lines upon the Dial, extend the Thread from the Center over the Plane of the Equinoctial Circle along the Hour- Lines thereof one after another, until it meets the Wall : then if Lines be drawn from the Center of the Dial to the said Points of Concourfe, these will be the Hour-Lines. But the Hour-Lines may be otherwise pricked down in the Night, by the light of a Link or Candle ; for the centeral Thread being first extended along the Axis, and faftened to the Wall, afterwards move the Link 'till the Shadow of the Axis falls upon any given Hour upon the Equinoctial Circle, and then the Shadow of the said extended Thread upon the Wall will be the fame Hour- Line ; and by draw- ing a Line upon the Wall along the fame with a Pencil, that will be the Hour-Line.

Proceed thus for drawing the other Hour-Lines. Note, This Method of drawing Dials is a very good one, particularly when a Surface is not flat and even, or when the Center of the Dial falls at a great Distance. You must obferve likewise, that the Shadow of the Axis of the Instrument fhews the Time of Day on the upper-side of the Equinoctial Circle from the 20th of March (N. S.) to the 22d of September, and on the under-side the other fix Months ; and the Side of the Equinoctial Circle that the Sun Ihines upon, must always but juft touch the Center of the Semi-Circle.

CHAP. V.

Of the Conflruciion and Uses of Portable Dials,

Of the ConJlruRion of a Globe.

.12. fTT^ H I S Figure reprefents a Globe, whereon are drawn the Meridians or Hour-Circles. X There are divers Sizes of them •, the great ones are fet up in Gardens, and are of Stone or Wood well painted, and the small ones are made of Brass, having CompafTes belonging to them, and may be reckoned among the Number of Portable Dials.

The manner of turning round Balls of any Matter is well known, but if a large Stone- Ball is to be made, that cannot be turned because of it's Weight : first, you must nighly form it with a Chifiel, and then take a wooden or brafs Semi-Circle of the fame Diameter as you defign your Ball. This being done, turn the Semi-Circle about the Ball, and take away all the Superfluities with a Rafpe, until the Semi-Circle every where and way juft touches the Superficies thereof j afterwards make it fmooth with a Pumice-Stone or Sea- Dog Fifh's Skin, fefr.

The Globe being well rounded and made fmooth, you must take the Diameter thereof with a Pair of Spheric CompafTes, viz. such whose Points are crooked, which suppose the right Line A B - t this Line is divided into two equal Parts in E by the vertical Line Z N, the upper Point whereof Z, reprefents the Zenith, and the lower one N, the Nadir. Now fet one Point of the Spheric CompafTes in E, and extend the other to A, and draw the Me- ridian Circle AZBN; likewise fetting one Foot of your CompafTes in Z, with the last Opening defcribe the Circle A E B, reprefenting the Horizon -, and from the Point B to C count 49 Deg. the Elevation of the Pole on the Meridian, and fetting one Foot of your CompafTes in the Point C, reprefenting the North Pole, extend the other to 41 Deg. on the Meridian below the Point B, and draw the Equinoctial Circle ; likewise fetting one Foot of your Compares, opened to the fame Distance as before, upon the Point in the Meridian cut by the Equinoctial, you may draw the Hour-Circle of 6 pafling thro' the Poles C and D. By this means the Equinoctial mail be divided into four equal Parts by the Meridian and Hour- Circle of 6 ; and if each of these four Parts be divided into fix equal Parts, for the 24 Hours of a Natural Day, and about the Points of Division as Centers, with the extent of a Qua- drant of the Globe, Circles be defcribed ; these will all pass thro' the Poles of the World C and D, and are the Hour-Circles. If you have a mind to have the half Hours or Quar- ters, each of the Divisions on the Equinoctial must be divided into 2 or 4 equal Parts. The Hour-Circles are numbered round the Equinoctial both above and below it, as appears per Figure.

If the Parallels of the Signs are to be drawn upon the Globe, you must count Upon the Meridian both ways from the Equinoctial, the Declination for every Sign, according to the Table expreffed ; as, for Example, For the two Tropicks you must count 23 Deg. 30 Min. from the Equinoctial, and about the Poles C and D, draw Circles on the Globe. Note&gt; The two Polar Circles must be drawn at 23 Deg. 30 Min. from the Poles, or 66 Deg. 30 Min. from the Equinoctial.

The Globe thus ordered must be placed upon a Pedeftal proportionable to the bigness thereof in a Hole made in the Nadir N, distant from the Pole the Complement of it's Ele- vation (viz. 41 Deg.) and fixed in a Garden, or elsewhere, well expofed to the Sun, so as to be conformable to the Sphere of the World.

But if it be a small Portable Globe, we place a little Compass upon the Pedeftal thereof* that so the Globe may be fet North and South when the Hour of the Day is to be fhewn there- by, which is fhewn thereon without a Style, by the Shadow of the fame Globe : for the Sha- dow or Light thereon always occupies one half of the Globe's Convexity, when the Sun fhines upon it j and so the Extremity of the Shadow or Light fhews the Hour in two opposite Places. If, moreover, the different Countries on the Earth's Superficies, as likewise the principal Cities, are laid down upon the Globe according to their true Latitudes and Longi- tudes, you may difcover any Moment the Sun fhines upon the fame, by the illuminated part thereof, what Places of the Earth the Sun mines upon, and what Places are in Darknefs. The Extremity of the Shadow fhews likewise what Places the Sun is rifing or fetting at j and what Places have long Days, and what have fhort Nights : you may likewise distinguish thereon the Places towards the Poles that have perpetual Night and Day. All this is eafy to be underftood by those who are acquainted with the Nature of the Sphere. Note, This Dial is the most natural of all others, because it refembles the Earth itfelf, and the Sun mines thereon as he does on the Earth.

You may find the Hour of the Day otherwise, by means of a thin brafs Semi-Circle di* vided into twice 90 Deg. adjufted to the Poles or Extremes of the Axis, by help of two little Ferrils. This Semi-Circle being turned about the Globe with your Hand, until it only makes a perpendicular Shadow upon the Globe, reprefents the Hour-Circle wherein the Sun is, and confequently fhews the Hour of the Day, and also what Places of the Earth it is Noon at that Time. But in this Cafe the Number 12 must be fet to the Meridian, and the Numbers 6 and 6 to the two Points wherein the Equinoctial cuts the Horizon : and this is the reason why we commonly place two rows of Figures along the Equinoctial. The Shadow of the two ends of the Axis, if they are continued out far enough beyond the Poles, and the Hours are -figured round the Polar Circles, will likewise fhew the Hour. Note* In order to* make small Portable Globes univerfal, we adjuft Quadrants underneath them, that so the Pedeftal may be flid according to the Elevation of the Pole. This is eafy to be underftood.

The ConftruBion and Use of the Concave and Convex Semi-Cylinder.

Thefe Dials, which are made of different bigneffes, the small ones of Brass, and the great ones of Stone or Wood, are very curious on account of their fhewing the Hour of the Day without a Style. Their Exact nefs confifts very much in being very round and even both within side and without.

The 13th Figure reprefents one of these Dials, fet upon and fattened on it's Pedeftal, in- Fig- 13^ Clining to the Horizon under an Angle equal to the Elevation of the Pole, and directly facing the South : and therefore the Hour-Lines and the Edges A B, a b, ferving as a Style, are all parallel between themfelves, and to the Axis of the World. The whole Convex Cylinder is divided into 24 equal Parts, or twice 12 Hours, by parallel Lines ; and the Concave Semi- Cylinder is divided into 6 equal Parts by Right Lines, which are the Hour- Lines from 6 in the Morning, to 6 in the Afternoon.

Now when the Sun fhines upon this Dial, the Hour of the Day is fhewn on the Convex side thereof, by the defect of Light, that is, by a right Line feparating the Light from the Shadow. But the Hour of the Day is fhewn in the Concave part of the Dial, by the Shadow of one of the Edges A B or a b •, so that when the Sun in the Morning is come to the Hour-Circle of 6. the Shadow of the eaft Edge ab will then fall upon the other Edge A B, which is the Hour-Line of 6 : and as the Sun rifes higher above the Horizon, the Shadow of the laid Kdge a b will defcend and fhew the Hour among the Hour-Lines. (Note t

The Figures on the Top are for the Morning Hours, and those on the Bottom for the After- noon ones.) When the Sun is come to the Meridian, he directly fhines into the Dial, and then the Edges will caft no Shadow : but when the Sun has pafled the Meridian, and de- fcends weftwards, the Shadow of the opposite Edge A B will mew the Hour from 12 to 6 in the Evening. If you have a mind to have the Halves and Quarters of Hours, you need but double or quadruple the Divisions.

Small Dials of this kind have Companies belonging to them, that so the Dials may be ki North and South.

The Conjlrutlion and Use of the Vertical Cylinder.

This is a vertical Dial drawn upon the Superficies of a Cylinder by means of a Table of the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon at every Hour, when he enters into every 10th De- gree of the Signs, according to the Latitude of the Place for which the Dial is to be drawn j and for this end the following Table is calculated for 49 Degrees of Latitude.

A TABLE of the Sun's Altitudes for every Hour of the Day at his Entrance into every 10th Degree of the Signs, for the Latitude of 49 Degrees.

We now proceed to fhew the Construction of the of or ef aid Dial upon a Plane which afterwards may be made Cylindrical, or wrapped round a Cylinder ; or this Dial may be made upon the Surface of a Cylinder itfelf if the Lines be drawn thereon as upon a Plane.

Fig. i 4 . Defcribe the Right-angled Parallelogram A B C D upon a brafs Plate or Sheet of Paper,

whose Breadth A B or CD let be nearly equal to the Circumference of the Cylinder it is to be wrapped round, and prolong the Line A B, upon which afiume A E for the Length of the Style, which mail determine the Length of the Cylinder. Then about the Point E, as a Center, with the Radius E A, make a circular Arc equal to the Sun's Meridian Altitude at his entrance into Cancer, and draw the occult Line E D, determining the Length or Height ef the Cylinder AD -, but if this length was given, and the Length of the Style required, you must delcribe an Arc about the Point D, equal to the Complement of the Sun's great- eft Meridian Altitude, which, if the greateft Altitude be 64 Deg. 30 Min. will be 25 Deg. 30 Min. and draw the occult Line DE&gt; which shall determine the Length of the Style E A, proportioned to the Length of the Cylinder.

This being done, divide the Arc A F into Degrees and Minutes, and draw occult Lines thro' each of the Points of Division, from the Center E to tiie Line A D, that so this Line

rtiay be made a Scale of Tangents. But this Line may be otherwise divided, by supposing the Radius AE ioo or iooo equal Parts, according to the Length of the Cylinder, and taking the correfpondent Tangents from printed Tables, and laying them off from A.

Things being thus ordered, divide the Sides A B, DC, into 6 equal Parts, and join the points of Division by five parallel right Lines, which will reprefent the beginnings of the twelve Signs ; then trifect each of these parallel Spaces for the ioth and 20th Degree of each Sign. Now by this means the Beginnings of the Months may be fet upon your Dial, be- caufe there will be no fenfible Error in fixing the Sun's Entrance into every Sign the 20th Day of every Month (N. S.). Then to prick down the Hour-Points upon all these Lines one after another, you must use the foregoing Table : for example, to prick down the Houi- Point of 10 in the Morning, or 2 in the Afternoon, upon the Line A D reprefenting the Summer Tropick, you will find by the Table, that the Sun's Altitude at the Time of the Summer Solftice at the Hours of 10 or 2, is §5 Deg. 19 Min. therefore you must take the Tangent of 55 Deg. 19 Min. from your Scale of Altitudes A D, and lay off from the Side A B upon the said Tropick, and then you will have a Point therein thro' which the proposed Hour-Line mufl pass. Again, To prick down the Hour- Point of the said Hour of 2 upon another Parallel, suppose on that of the ill Degree of Leo or Gemini, you will find by the Table that the Sun's Altitude will then be 52 Deg. 34 Min. and the Tangent of these Degrees being taken from the Scale of Altitudes A D, and laid off upon the said Pa- rallel from A B, will give a Point therein thro' which the Hour-Line of 2 must pass. And if you proceed in this manner, and find Points in the other Parallels, and likewise on their Divisions of every ioth and 20th Degree •, these Points joined will give the curved Hour- Line of 10 in the Morning, or 2 in the Afternoon.

And thus likewise may be found Points in the Parallels thro' which the other Hour- Lines must pass •, which being done, you must join all those belonging to the fame Hour by an even Hand, and mark the Characters of the Signs, the first Letters of the Months, as likewise the Hour-Figures* each in their refpective Places, as per Figure, and your Dial will be finifhed; which afterwards must be wrapped about the Cylinder, or bent Cy- lindrically, so that the Lines reprefenting the two Tropicks be parallel between them- felves.

The Style is fattened to a Chapiter ferving as an Ornament, and must be moveable on the&gt; Line A B, that so it may be placed at right Angles on the Degree of the Sign or Day of the Month. This Dial being placed upright, or hung by a Ring, turn it to the Sun, so that the Shadow of the Style may fall down right upon the Parallel of the Day you defire to know the Hour in, and then the Extremity thereof will fhew the Hour or Part.

The Sun's Altitude may be (hewn likewise by this Instrument thus : Put the Style uport the Scale of Altitudes, keeping the Cylinder fufpertded or horizontally placed, and turn it about so that the Style be towards the Sun •, then the Shadow of the Extremity thereof shall ihew the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon.

The abovefaid Parallelogram may ferve likewise as a Dial, without being wrapped round a Cylinder, or turned up cylindrically, if the Style be so adjufted as to Aide along the Line A B, that so it may be fet over the Day of the Month, or Parallel of the Sign the Sun is in. This is eafily done, in making a little Slit along the Top of the Plate, and flatting the Foot of the Style, so that it may Hide in the said Slit without varying it's Length. Now if this Parallelogram be placed upright, and the Line AB level (which may be eafily done by means of a Plumb-Line faftened to one of the Sides), and you hold it thus in your hand, or fufpend it by a Ring, so that it be directly expofed to the Sun, and the Shadow of the Style falls upon the Parallel of the Sign or Month \ then the Extremity of the Shadow of the said Style will fall upon the Hour.

'The Conftrufiion and Use of a Dial drawn on a Quadrant.

This Figure reprefents a Portable Dial drawn on a Quadrant, whose Conftruction we have Fig. t, thought fit to lay down here, since it is made, as well as the Cylindrical Dial, by means ol a Table of the Sun's Altitude calculated for the Latitude of the Place the Dial is made for.

First, Divide the Limb B C of the Quadrant into Degrees, and about the Center A defcribe another Arc R S, reprefenting the Tropick of *s. Likewise divide the Radius A B nearly into 3 equal Parts, and with the Distance A D draw a circular Arc for the Tropick of Yf ; divide the Space B D into 6 equal Parts, and defcribe the like Number of circular Arcs about the Center A, which shall reprefent the Parallels of the other Signs, as they are denoted on the Side A C of the Quadrant. The next thing to be done, is to draw the Hour-Lines. Let it be required (for Example) to find a Point in the Tropick of 2s thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass : By the above pofited Table, the Sun's Al- titude (at Paris) at the said Time is 64 Deg. 29 Min. therefore take a Thread, or Ruler faftened to the Center A, and extend it to that Number of Degrees and Minutes on the Limb of the Quadrant, and where the Thread or Edge of the Ruler cuts the Tropick of ss, will be one Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must be drawn. Then feek the

Sun's Altitude when he enters into n, which being found 61 Deg. 12 Min. lay the Thread over 61 Deg. 12 Min. on the Limb, and where it cuts the Parallel of ii, make a Mark for a Point in the said Parallel thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass. And if you proceed in this manner, Points may be found in the Parallels, or their Parts (if the Quadrant be big enough), thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass, as likewise all the other Hour-Lines j and if the Points be joined, the curve Hour-Lines will be had, and the Dial will be finifhed, when there are two Sights fixed upon the Side A C.

The Use of this Quadrant.

Direct the Plane of the Instrument towards the Sun in fueh manner, that his Rays may pass thro' the Holes of the Sights G G, and then the Plumb-Line freely playing, will Ihew the Time of Day by interfering the Parallel that the Sun is in. But if you put a little Bead or Pin's Head upon the Plumb-Line, then you may extend the Thread from the Center, and Aide the Bead thereon, and fix it over the Degree of the Sign or Day of the Month, and holding up the Quadrant, as before, the Bead will fall upon the Hour of the Day.

The Conflruclion and Use of a Particular right-lined Dial.

Fig. 1 j, This Dial, which we call Particular, because it ferves but for one determinate Latitude,

is made upon a very even Plate of Brass, or other Metal, about the bigness of a playing Card. The Conftruction thereof is thus: First, draw the two right Lines A B, CD, crof- fing one another at right Angles in the Point E, about which, as a Center, with the Ra- dius E C defcribe the Circle C B D, and divide it into 24 equal Parts, beginning from the Point D ; then thro' each two Divisions thereof equally distant from the Points C and D, draw parallel right Lines, which will be the Hour-Lines, whereof D R is that of 12, BE that of 6, and C M that of Midnight. This being done, form the right-angled Parallelo- gram P M Q^R, and draw the occult Line D R, making an Angle with C D equal to the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 49 Deg. This Line shall reprefent the Radius of the Equi- noctial, and by means thereof the Trigon of Signs must be formed, having D for it's Ver- tex. In order for this, produce the Hour-Line of the Sun's rifing in the longeft Day of Summer, which here is the Hour-Line of 4 •, as likewise the Hour-Line of 6, until it meets the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle DR ; then the Point in the Radius of the Equinoctial cut by the Hour-Line of 6, will be the Center of a Circle, whose Diameter mail be perpen- dicular to the said Radius, and is terminated by the Interferon of the Hour-Line of 4 therewith. This Circle being defcribed, divide the Circumference thereof into 12 equal Parts, in order to form the Trigon of Signs, as is before explained in the third Chapter of this Book. Note* The two Tropicks will be at the Extremities of the said Diameter, each making an Angle of 23 Deg. 30 Min. with the Radius of the Equinoctial, the Vertex being the Point D. Now the next thing to be done, must be to make a little Slit along the Radius of the Equinoctial, that so a little Slider or Curfor may Hide along it, having a little Hole drilled thro' it for fattening a Thread and Plummet with a Bead or Pin's Head on the Thread. And after this, we place two Sights on the Extremities of the Line P Q^

The Use of this Dial.

Slide the Curfor, and fix the Hole in which the Thread is fattened over the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, or the Day of the Month •, then flip the Bead or Pin's-head along the Thread, until it be upon the Hour-Line of 12. This being done, hold up your In- ftrument, lifting it higher or lower 'till the Sun fliines thro' the Holes of the Sights R and S, and the Thread freely plays upon the Plane thereof ; then the Bead will fall upon the Hour of the Day.

The Conflruclion of an Univerfal right-lined Dial.

jff g- , 6 This right-lined Dial, which ferves for all Latitudes, is made of a bigness at pleafure,

upon a very even Plate of Brass or other solid Matter. The Construction of it is thus : Draw the Lines A B, CD, cutting each other at right Angles in the Point E, about which, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant A F, which divide into 90 Deg. and with the Point E for the Vertex, make a Trigon of Signs according to the Method explained in Chap. 2. Divide each Sign into 3 Parts, each being 10 Deg. and fet the htft Letters of the Months to the Places correfponding to them, by supposing (as we have already) that the Sun's Entrance into every Sign is the 20th Day of the Month (N. S.) ; for Example, his Entrance into r the 20th of March, his Entrance into s the 20th of April* &c This may be without any fenfible Error in so small an Instrument. Now draw dotted Lines from the Center E thro' the Divisions of the Quadrant A F, to the Line A G, which will divide it into Points, from which Parallels must be drawn to the Line A B, which shall be the different Latitudes or Elevations of the Pole, which must be only marked between the two Tropicks, as you fee in the Figure, wherein they aic drawn ro every 5th Deg. On both sides the Point B lay off upon the Line B H, the Divisions that the Radii of the Signs of the Trigon make dn the Line a a, reprefenting the Latitude oF 45 Deg. that so the Repre- {entation of another Zodlack may be made upon the Line B H.

Now the manner of drawing the Hour-Lines upon this Dial is thus : Draw Lines thro* every 15th Deg. of the Quadrant A F, parallel to ED, which is the Hour-Line of 6- and these Parallels will be the Hour-Lines from 6 in the Evening to 6 in the Mornino- A L being the Hour-Line of Midnight. And if the parallel Spaces, be laid off on th? other side of the Hour-Line of 6, you will have the Hour-Lines from 6 in the Morning to 6 in the Evening. And for drawing the half Hours, divide each 15th Deg. of the Quadrant A F into half, and draw Parallel Lines between the Hour-Lines.

The Hour-Lines may be yet otherwise drawn, by means of a Circle, whose Diameter is the Line A B, and whose Circumference is divided into 24 equal Parts for the 24 Hours of the Day, or into 48, for the Half-Hours. For then if right Lines be drawn thro' the op- pofite Points of Division, parallel to E D, we shall have the Hour-Lines, and those of the Half-Hours, as we have said in the Conftruction of the former right-lined Dial.

About the Point I, as a Center, draw an occult Quadrant, which divide into 90 Deg. and laying a Ruler to the Center I, and on each Division mark the fame Degrees upon the Sides G Q, and G S of the Instrument. Note, By means of these Divisions we may find the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon, as we shall fhew by and by. R R are two Sights fixed on the Side G H. And the Piece K is a small Arm or Index, made of 3 Blades of Brass, so join- ed to each other by headed Rivets, that they may have a Motion either to the right or left i at the fharp end of this Ann is made a very little Hole, thro' which goes a Thread with a Plummet at the end thereof, and a little Bead or Pin's Head thereon. This little Arm is faftened to the Instrument with a headed Rivet, that so it may have a Motion at the Place K.

The Use of this Dial.

If the Hour of the Day be to be found by this Instrument, you must adjuft the End a of the Index on the Interfection of the Line of the Latitude of the Place, and the Degree of .the Sign the Sun is in, or the Day of the Month ; then extend the Thread, and flide the Bead to the fame Degree of the Sign in the little Zodiack, drawn on the Hour-Line of 12 B I. This being done, hold the Instrument up until the Sun fhines thro' the Sights R R, and the Thread freely playing upon the Plane of the Instrument, the Bead will fall upon the Hour of the Day.

If the Time of the Sun's rifing and fetting in all the Signs of the Zodiack for the Latitudes denoted upon the Instrument be required, fix the End a of the Index on the Interfection of the Line of the Latitude of the Place, and the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in ; then the Thread freely falling parallel to the Hour-Lines, will fhew the Hour of the rifing and fet- ting of the Sun. For Example, The End of the Index being fixed on the Interfection of the Sign of s*, and the Line of the Latitude of 49 Deg. the Thread will fall along the Hour-Line of 4 in the Morning, or 8 in the Evening : and this fhews, that about the eoth of June, (N. S.) the Sun rifes at Paris, at 4 in the Morning, and fets at 8 in the Evening, and so of others.

The Elevation of the Pole is found thus : Place the End of the Index on the Point I, and raife or lower the Instrument until the Sun's Rays pass thro' the Holes of the Sights ♦, then the Thread freely playing, will fhew the Sun's Altitude upon* the Degrees on the side OS or Q^G.

All these kinds of Dials, that fhew the Hour of the Day by the Sun's Altitude, are con- venient in this, that they fhew the Time of Day without a Compass ; but their common Imperfection is, that about Noon the Hour cannot be exactly determined by them, unlefs by several Obfervations to know whether the Sun increafes or decreafes in Altitude, and con- fequently whether it is before or after Noon.

The Conftruttion of an horizontal Dial for several Latitudes.

This Dial, which is made upon a very even and fmooth Plate of Brass, or other solid Plate 24, Matter, hath a little Piece of Brass in form of a Bird, the lower part of which is ad- Fig. 1. jufted in two little knuckles, that so it may be rendered moveable, and lie down upon the Plane of the Dial. This Bird is kept upright by means of a Spring that is underneath the Dial-Plate, which going thro' a little square Hole in the Plate, keeps the Bird firm upon it's Foot. There is a Style or Axis going into the Bird, which is double, the lower End. of which goes into a little Knuckle at the Center of the Dial, that so the said Style may be raifed or lowered, according to the Latitude. There is on the Style a circular Arc, where- on the Degrees are fet down from 35 or 40 to 60. There is a Slit made along this divided Arc, passing by the Eye of the Bird, that so it's Bill may be fet to the Degree of the Pole's Elevation, and fixed there. The Dial-Plate is hollowed in circular, that so a Compass may be added thereto, faftened underneath by two Screws. The Needle and the Glass covering it, are placed in the fame manner as in other Compasses, of which we Have al- ready fpoken.

The Surface of this Dial is divided into 4 or 5 Circumferences for the like Number of different Latitudes, according to some one of the Methods before laid down for diawirtg of horizontal Dials, whereof that by the Calculation of Angles is molt in use for fucli small Dials as these. They may be drawn also by means of a Plat-form, upon which are several Dials divided by the Rules before given. But this is well known to the Instrument- Maker.

The outmost Circumference, which is divided for 55 Deg. of Latitude, may well enough ferve for those Places contained between the 58th and 53d Deg. of Latitude. The second, which is divided for 50 Deg. of Latitude, may ferve for Places contained between the 53d and the 47th Deg. of Latitude. The third, which is divided for 45 Deg. may ferve for Places between the 47th and 42d Deg. And the fourth, which is divided for 40 Deg. ferves for Places contained between the 42d and 38 th Deg. of Latitude.

When a 5th Dial is drawn upon the Plate for the Latitude of 35 Deg. this ferves for all Places contained between the 37th and the 3 2d Deg. of Latitude. Now by means of a good Map of the World, or Globe, you may fee at what Places these Dials will be in use -, for that which is made for one Latitude, will ferve for all Places round about the Earth, having the fame North and South Latitude. We commonly grave underneath the Dial a Table of the principal Cities of the World with their Latitudes and Longitudes •, that so the conve- nient Circumference on the Plate may be chofe, and the Axis of the Dial raifed to the proper Elevation of the Pole.

The Use of this Dial.

To find the Hour of the Day, raife or lower the Style, so that the End of the Bill of the little Bird may anfwer to the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole marked on the Style, as at Paris against the 49th Degree. The Style being thus raifed, place the Dial parallel to the Horizon, that is, level, and turn it so to the Sun 'till the North Point of the Needle ufually marked with a little Ring, fixes itfelf ovef the Line of Declination, whereon is a Flower-de- luce&gt; and North is writ. Then the Shadow of the Style will fhew the Hour of the Day up- on the Circumference divided for the Latitude of the Place. You must take care not to fee the Dial near Iron, for this changes the Direction of the Needle.

'The Confiruftion of a Ring Dial.

Fig. 2. Take a very round Ring of Brass, or other solid Matter, about two Inches in Diameter,

Four or five Lines in breadth, and of a convenient Thicknefs, and affume the Point A at pleafure thereon (whereat there is a little Hole), about which, as a Center, defcribe a Qua- drant ADC, which divide into 90 Degrees. Then find the Sun's Altitudes in the foregoing Table at every Hour when he is in the Equinoctial for the Latitude of Paris, and laying a Ruler from the Center A thro' those Altitudes affumed on the Quadrant, you may draw Lines which will divide the concave Surface of the Ring into rhe Hour-Points. Now this Dial will be very good for the Times of the Equinox, it being fufpended by the Ring B, fo that the Line A D is upright.

But one of these Dials may be made for fhewing the Hour of the Day at any other time of the Year, if the Hole A be made moveable. For doing which, make the Arcs A E, A I, 23 Deg. for the Signs «, T T, m, and x •, A F, A K, 40 Deg. 26 Min. for the Signs h, ft, ~, and t -, and the Arcs AG, A L, 47 Deg. for the Signs es and kf. (The rea- fon why we affume these Arcs double, is, because Angles at the Circumference are but half those at the Center.) Now by this means we shall have a Kind of Zodiack upon the convex Surface of the Ring, whereon must be marked the Signs in their proper Places, or else the first Letters of the Months, that so the Hole A may be put to the Degree of the Sign, or the Day of the Month.

You must defcribe likewise 7 Circles in the concave Surface of the Ring, whereof that in the Middle will be for the Equinoctial, and the others for the other Parallels. This being done, about the Points A, E, F, G, I, K, L, as so many Centers, defcribe Quadrants of 90 Deg. upon which Quadrants affume the Altitudes of the Sun every Hour when he is in every of the Signs, and produce the Radii drawn from the Centers to the Points of Affump- tion, until they cut the Circumferences in the concave Part of the Ring, and you will have Points thereon for the Hour-Lines, which must be joined.

Note, Thefe Divisions may be feparately drawn, and afterwards transferred on the Ring.

The Use of this Dial.

Place the moveable Hole at the Degree of the Sign wherein the Sun is ; then holding the Ring fufpended, turn it towards the Sun, so that his Rays passing thro' the Hole A, may fall upon the convenient Circumference of the Sign in the concave Part of the Ring, and then you will have the Hour of the Day fhewn.

Chap. 5. of Sun-Dials. 245

To defcrifa the Hour- Lines upon another fort of Ring.

The fourth Figure reprefents th'13 Ring compleat, and the Parallelogram ABCD, repre* Fig. 3, Tents it laid open or ftrctched upon a Plane, chat so the Hour-Lines may be pricked down thereon before it be turned up circularly.

This Ring is made of a blade of Brass, or other solid Matter, being in length proportion- Fig. 4. able to the Bignefs you would have the Ring, and at least 4 or 5 Lines broad, with a pro- portionable Thicknefs, and whose Extremes AC, B D, are cut at right Angles. About the Points C and D defcribe two Quadrants A L, M B, and divide each of them into 9 ^ qual Parts •, and from each opposite Division draw the Parallels of the Signs, whereof the Line C F D (hall be for v and ===, A E B for the two Tropicks, and the others for the other Si&lt;ms placed according to their order. Then bifect the Parallelogram A B C D by the Line E F, and draw the Line G H feparately equal to E B, that so a Scale may be made thereof, which mull be divided into 9 equal Parts, each of which must be fubdivided into 10 equal Parts more by little dots, and so the said Scale will be divided into 90 equal Parts, anfwer- ing to the 90 Dcg. of a Quadrant. This being done, take the Degrees of the Sun's Alti- tude from the above pofited Table of Altitudes, at every Hour when the Sun is in the Equi- nox, and the Solftice% for the Horizon of Paris. For example, When the Sun is in the ift Deg. of sz, his Meridian Altitude is 64 Deg. 29 Min. take 64 \ equal Parts from the Scale G H between your Compasses, and lay them off upon the Brass Blade both ways from E to the Points I and K, as like wife from the Point F to the Points L and M, and join the Points I L and K M, by right Lines : then take from the Table the Sun's Altitude at the Hours of 1 and 11, when he is in the Summer Solftice, viz. 61 Deg. 54 Min. which here may be taken for 62 Deg. and opening your Compasses to the Extent of 62 equal Parts of the Scale, lay them off upon A B from K towards E, and you will have a Point of the Hour-Lines of 1 1 and 1 ; likewise take 41 equal Parts or Degrees, for the Sun's Meridian Altitude when he is in the Equinoctial, and lay them off from M to O, and from L to N, and the Points N and O are those thro' which the two Hour-Lines of 12 must be drawn. Moreover, take 39 Deg. 20 Min. the Sun's Altitude when he is in the Equinox, at the Hours of 11 and 1, from the Scale, and lay them off from the said Points M and L upon the said Line C D, and you will have two Points in the Line C D, thro' which the Hour-Lines of 1 1 and 1 must be drawn. And in this manner may Points be found in this Line, thro' which the other Hour-Lines must pass.

But now to find Points in the Line A B, or TrOpick of Capricorn? on this side the Point E, ♦hro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn, (for the Points of the fame Line, on the other side of E, for the Tropick of Cancer may be found in the fame manner as the Points for the Hour-Line of 11 and 1 was) you must take 17 4 Degrees, or equal Parts from the Scale, viz. the Sun's Meridian Altitude, when he is in the Tropick of Capricorn, and lay them off from I to P, and P will be the Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass ; and fo may the Points be found thro' which the other Hour-Lines must be drawn. Now if the Points found in the Lines A B, and C D, thro' which the Hour-Lines pass, be joined by right Lines •, these right Lines will be the Hour-Lines.

But if you have a mind to be exacter, you may take the Degrees of the Sun's Altitudes at every Hour when he enters, and is in each 10th and 20th Degree of every Sign, and then find Points on the refpective Parallels on the Dial thro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn, which will not be right Lines but Curves j and in this cafe the Dial will be exacter.

Having drawn the Hour-Lines, you must Number them on both sides the Lines A B, C D, and also fet down the Characters of the Signs, and the first Letters of the Months, each in their proper Place. When this is done, you must drill two little Holes in the Points R and S {viz. the middles of the Lines I L, K M) in a conical Figure, the greater Bases being outmost, that so the Sun's Rays may better come thro' them ; afterwards round or turn up the said Blade circularly, folder the Extremities A C, BD together, and place a Button, with a Ring in the middle of the Junction of the said Extremities, so that the whole Instrument be in equilibria ; which that it may, you must turn the outfide there- of.

The Use of this Instrument.

Hold the Ring fufpended, and turn the Hole proper for the Time of Year towards the Sun, so that his Rays may fall upon the Parallel of the Sign he is in, the Day wherein you ufe the Instrument -, and then the Hour of the Day will be (hewn thereon by a bright Spot or Point of Light.

Note, The Hole S is in use from the 20th of March, (N. S.) to the 2 2d of September, and the Hole R for the other fix Months. We likewise write upon the convex Superficies of the Ring near the little Holes, the 20th of March, and the 22d of September, as appears in Figure 3, and, lastly, obferve that these two last -Djals are proper but for one La- titude.

2,46 *Fhe Conjlruclion and Uses Book VIII,

The Construction and Use of the unherfal Agronomical Ring-Did.

Fig. 5. This Instrument, vvhofe Use is to find the Hour of the Day in any part of the Earthy

by a bright Spot of the Sun's Light, is made of Brass or other Metal, and confifts of two Rings, or flat Circles turned both within side and without. The Diameter of these Kings, which ought to be broad and thick proportionable to taeir bigneftes, are from two to fix Inches. The outward Ring A rtprefents the Meridian of any Place wherein one is, and there are two Divisions of 90 Degrees thereon, which are diametrically opposite to each other, one whereof ferves from our North Pole to the Equator, and the other from the Equa- tor to the South Pole.

The innermost Ring reprefents the Equator, and ought to turn very exactly within the outward one, by means of two Pivots or Pins put into Holes made diametrically opposite in the two Rings at the Points of the Hour of 12.

There is a thin Riglet (called a Bridge) with a Curfor marked C, compofed of two little Pieces that Aide in an Aperture made along the Middle of the said Bridge, and which are kept together by two small Screws. Thro' the Middle of this Curfor is a very little Hole drilled, that so the Sun may mine thro' it. Now the Middle of the said Bridge may be confidered as the Axis of the World, and the Extremities as the Poles of the World ; and there are drawn on one side thereof the Signs of the Zouiack with their Characters, and on the other side the Days and Names of the Months, or only their first Letters, being placed according to the refpect they have to the Signs. The Signs are divided into every 10th or 5th Degree, according to their Declination, by means of a Trigon already divided, the Vertex of which, or Extremity of the Radius of the Equinoctial, being within side the Equinoctial Circle, as at the Point F. The two Pieces D D which are fcrewed to the cuter- moll Ring, ferve to fupport the Bridge or Axis which is moveable round, and are so ordered as that the innermost Ring may lie exactly within the outermost, and they both make as it were but one. The two Pieces E are also fcrewed on the outermost Ring, and ferve as Props to keep the Equinoctial Circle or inward Ring at right Angles to the Meridian or outermost Ring.

We shall not here repeat the manner of dividing the two Quadrants into Degrees, and the Equinoctial Circle into Hours, Halves, and Quarters, having iufficiently fpoken of this elsewhere. We shall only add, that all the Divisions of the Equinoctial Circle must be drawn upon the concave Side thereof, which may be done by means of a Piece of Steel turned up square, according to the Curvature of the Circle.

Near the outward Edges, on each of the two flat Sides of the Meridian, is made a Groove for the Piece G to Aide therein, the Middle of which is bent inwards, that so it may go into the laid Grooves. The two Sides of this Piece, which must be well hammered that they may have a good Spring, are made flat, in order to prefs against the convex Surface of the Meridian, that thereby the Piece G may be held fall on any Degree of Division of the Meridian. The Button thro' which the Ring of Sufpenfion H goes, is riveted to the Middle of the Piece G, so that it may turn round very freely, and by this means the In- strument be very perpendicularly fufpended by the Ring H : for this is one of the principal things in which the Exactnefs of the Instrument confifts.

'The Use of the Agronomical Ring-Dial.

Place the inort Line a on the Middle of the hanging Piece G over the Degree of the La- titude of the Place you are in upon the Meridian Circle, for example, over the 49th Deg. at Paris ; and then put the Line crofting the little Hole of the Curfor on the Bridge to the Degree of the Sign, or the Day of the Month you defire to know the Hour of the Day in. This being done, open the Instrument so that the two Rings or Circles be at right Angles to each other, and fufpend it by the Ring H, so that the Axis of the Dial reprefented by the Middle of the Bridge be parallel to the Axis of the World.

Turn the flat Side of the Bridge towards the Sun, so that his Rays coming thro' the little Hole in the Middle of the Curfor, fall exactly on a Line drawn round the Middle of the concave Surface of the Equinoctial Circle, or innermost Ring ; and then the bright Spot or luminous Point ftiews the Hour of the Day in the said concave Surface of the Ring.

Note, The Hour of 12 cannot be ftiewn by this Dial, because the outermost Circle or Ring being then in the Plane of the Meridian, it hinders the Sun's Rays from falling upon the in- nermost or Equinoctial Circle. You must obferve likewise, that when the Sun is in the Equi- noctial, you cannot then tell the Hour of the Day by this Dial, because his Rays fall parallel to the Plane of the said Equinoctial Circle. But this is but about one Hour every Day, and four Days in the Year.

The ConflruRion and Use of a Ring- Dial with three Rings.

Fig 6, Tins Instrument differs from the precedent one in nothing but only a third Ring or

Circle, carrying the Sun's Declination. The Ring A reprefents the Meridian of the Place

you would use the Dial in ; the Ring B reprefents the h qu noctial Circle ; and the Ring D,

which turns exactly within the said Equinoctial Circle, produces the fame Effect, as the

Bridge reprefenting the Axis of the World in the precedent Instrument. The two Extre- mities of the Diameter of this last Ring, or the two Points of the Circumference thereof, whereat it is faftened to the Meridian, anfwer to the two Poles of the World, On the op- pofite Parts D D of the Circumference of this Circle, is denoted a double Trigon of Signs, whose Center is the Vertex wherein all the Radius's reunite, the Arcs of each of which are fubdivided into every 10th or 5th Degree, to which may be likewise fubjoined the Days of the correfpondent Months.

The Index E is faftened to the Center of the innermost Ringi having two Sights riveted to the Extremities thereof, each having a small Hole drilled therein, for the Sun's Rays to pass thro'. Note, Dials compofed in this manner fhew the Hour of 12, because the In- dex is without the Plane of the Meridian Circle : and when we make them large, as o or 10 Inches in Diameter, we divide the Equinoctial Circle into every 5th or every 2d .Minute.

This Dial hath a Piece F like as the former Dial has, going into a Groove made on each side the Meridian, to be did to the Latitude of the Place. We fometimes fet these Dials upon Pedeftals, nearly like those of Spheres, which are (lid to the Latitude ; and in this Cafe they are placed upon an horizontal Plain •, we likewise add CompafTes to them, by which means the Variation of the Needle may be exactly known.

The Use of this Dial.

Place the little Line in the middle of the hanging Piece F to the Latitude of the Place wherein you have a mind to know the Hour of the Day, and the fiducial Line of the In- dex on the Day of the Month, or Degree of the Sign the Sun is in. Then open the Equi- noctial Circle at tight Angles to the Meridian, and holding the Instrument fufpended, raife or lower the innermost Circle, so that the Sun's Rays may go thro' the Holes of the two Sights ; then the Line which is drawn along the middle of the Convexity of the said Circle, will fhew the Hour or Part drawn in the middle of the Concavity of the Equinoctial Circle, even at all times of the Day;

This may likewise be done fomething more convenient, when the Instrument is placed horizontally upon it's Pedeftal.

The Conjlruclion of an univerfal inclined Horizontal, and an Equinoclial Dial.

This Instrument confifts of two Plates of Brass, or other solid Matter, whereof the under- Fig. 7. one A is hollowed in about the Middle, to receive a Compass faftened underneath with Screws. The Plate B is moveable by means of a strong Joint at the Plate C. Upon this Plate is drawn a horizontal Dial for some Latitude greater than any one of those the Dial is to be ufeci in, and having a Style thereon proportionable to that Latitude ; for when the said Plane B is raifed by means of the Quadrant, the horizontal Plane must always have a less Latitude than that the Dial is made for, or otherwise the Axis of the Style will have an Elevation too little.

Initead of the Quadrant D we generally place but only an Arc from the Equator to 60 Degrees, which are numbered downwards, 60 being at the Bottom, and for this Latitude of 60 Deg. we commonly draw the aforsaid horizontal Dial. That Arc of 60 Deg. is faftened by two small Tenons, and may be laid down upon the Plate A, as likewise may the Style upon the Plate B, and both of these are kept upright by means of little Springs underneath the Plates. What remains of the Conftruction of this Dial, may be fupplied from the Figure thereof.

"The Use of the inclined horizontal Dial.

Raife the upper Plate B to the Degree of Latitude or Elevation of the Pole of the Place wherein you are, by means of the Graduations on the Quadrant D. Then if the Plane A be fet horizontal, so that the Needle of the Compass fettles itfelf over it's Line of Declina- tion, the Shadow of the Axis will fhew the Hour of the Day. Note., We grave the Names of several principal Cities, as likewise their Latitudes and Longitudes, underneath the two Plates, in order to avoid the Trouble of feeking them in Maps.

After the abovefaid manner, equinoctial Dials are made Univerfal throughout the whole Earth •, but here we must have a whole Quadrant. The upper Plate is commonly in form of a hollowed Circle, which we divide into 24 equal Parts, for the Hours, each of which we fubdivide into 4 equal Parts, for the Quarters j all these being drawn in the Concavity of the Circle.

There is a Piece that goes thro' the Circle, carrying the right Style, which is kept faft in the middle of the Circle by means of a little Spring faftened underneath the Circle -, and by this means the right Style may be raifed above the said Circle, and lowered underneath it. And when the equinoctial Dial is drawn, we use the little Piece F for a Style, placed in the Center of the Circle. Note, The upper part of the Dial fhews the Hour of the Day from the 22d of March, (N. S.) to the 2?.d of September, and the under part thereof the Hour of the Day, the other 6 Months of the Year.

The Use of the equinoctial Dial.

You must place the Edge of the equinoctial Circle to the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole, by means of the Quadrant •, then if the Dial be fet North and South by means of the Compass, the Shadow of the Style will fhew the Hour of the Day at all times of the Year, even when the Sun is in the Equinoctial, because the Circle is hollowed in,

The CoriftruEtion of an Azimuth Dial.

Fig. 8. This Dial, which is commonfy made in the Bottom of a Compass, is called an Azimuth

Dial, because it is made by means of the Azimuth's or Sun's Vertical Circles, upon a Plate of Brass, or other solid Matter, parallel to the Horizon. First, draw the Line A B, repre- fenting the Meridian, upon which defcribe a Circle at pleafure, half of which we shall only ufe here for drawing the Morning Hour-Lines, because those of the Afternoon are drawn after the fame way. Divide this Circle into Degrees, beginning from the Point A, repre- fenting the North Pole. Then trifect the Semi-Diameter AC, and take AD equal to two thirds thereof, which must be divided into 6 Parts, thro' each Point of Division •, about the Center C must be drawn concentrick Arcs, reprefenting the Parallels of the Signs, the Arc H being the Summer Tropick, that neaRest to the Center C the Winter Tropick, and each of the others for two Signs equally distant from the Tropicks, as appears per Figure.

The Parallels of the Signs may moreover be drawn, in defcribing a Semi-Circle upon the Line H D, which Semi-Circle being divided into 6 equal Parts, you must let fall dotted Pa- rallels upon the Line H D •, these Parallels will divide the said Line into unequal Parts, and if thro' the Points of Divisions Arcs be defcribed about the Center C, these Arcs will be the Parallels of the Signs at unequal Distances from each other.

Now for drawing the Hour-Lines, the following Table of the Sun's Azimuths must be used •, for example, to prick down a Point in the Tropick of Cancer, thro' which the Hour- Line of 11 in the Morning must be drawn, you will find the Sun's Azimuth will then be 3oDeg. 17 Min. and when he is in the first Degree of n, or last of ft, his Azimuth at the fame Hour is 27 Deg. 58 Min. and so of others. Therefore if a Ruler be laid on the Center C, and on the 30th Deg. and 27 Min. of the outward divided Limb, the Edge of the Ruler will cut the Parallel of se, in a Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 11 must pass : then keeping the Ruler to the Center, move it, and lay it over the 27th Deg. and 58th Min. of the outmost Limb, and you will have a Point in the Parallel of u and ft. thro' which the Hour- Line of :i must pass ; and in this manner may Points be found in the other Parallels thro* which the Hour-Line of 1 1 must pass ; and also Points in all the Farallels thro' which the other Morning Flour-Lines must pass : each of which Points belonging to the fame Hours being joined, you will have the curved Hour-Lines on one side of the Meridian. And to find the Points thro' which the Afternoon Hour-Lines must pass, take the Distances of each Point in the Parallels from the Meridian, and transfer them on the fame Parallels continued out on the other side of the Meridian, because the Sun's Azimuth at any two Hours equally distant on each side the Meridian, is the fame.

The Use of the Azimuth Dial.

Turn the Side B towards the Sun, so that the Shadow of the right Style planted in a Point without the Compass, and parallel to the Line of Noon, may fall along the Meridian Line : then the Needle pointing exactly North and South, will fhew the Hour of the Day in the Interfc&ion thereof with the Parallel of the Sign the Sun is in, upon condition that the Needle has no Variation. But since the Needle varies now above 12 Degrees at Paris, you must place the Style in the Point E over the Line of Declination or Variation K I, and adjuft the Shadow of the Style along the said Line of Variation, and by this means the Error arifing from the Needle's Variation will be avoided.

A TABLE of the Sun's Azimuth or Distance from the Meridian every Hour of the Day, for the Latitude of 49 Degrees.

Chap. 5. $f Ston-Diah. 249

The Conjiru&ion and Use of the Analemmatick or Ecliptick Horizontal Dial

This is called an Analemmatick Dial, because it is made by means of the Analemma, which is the Projection or Reprefentation of the principal Circles of the Sphere upon a Plane. The 9th Figure is the Analemma ; and the 10th Figure reprefents the Dial compleat, which (hews the Hour of the Day without a Compass.

Now to project the Analemma ; upon a very even fmooth Plate of Brass, draw the Lines Fig. 9, A B and C D, cutting each other at right Angles in the Point E, about which, as a Center, defcribe the Circle A C B D, reprefenting the Meridian, it's Diameter C D, the Horizon, and A B the prime Vertical. Then affume the Arc D F equal to the Elevation of the Pole, which here is 49 Dcg. and draw the Line E F reprefenting the Axis of the World ; likewise affume the Arc C G equal to the Height of the Equinoctial 41 Degrees, and draw the Line G E for the Equinoctial. Affume the Arcs G H, G I, each of 23 Deg. 30 Min. for the Sun's greateft Declination, and draw the Line H I cutting the Equinoctial in the Point Y, about which, as a Center, defcribe the Circle H L I K, or only half of it, which divide in- to 6 equal Parts, and thro' each Point of Division draw Parallels to the Equinoctial, which continue out to the Horizon ; then from the Sections made by the said Parallels on the Me- ridian, let fall the Parallels M, N, O, and P to the Horizon, and from the Sections made by the said Parallels on the Axis, let fall the indefinite Perpendiculars £ c , R b, Qji to the Horizon. This being done, take the DifTance E M between your CompafTes, with which fetting one Foot in N, with the other make a small Arc upon the Line Q^z, and with one Foot in O cut the Line R b with the other ; then, continually keeping the CompafTes opened to the Extent E M, fet one Foot in P, and cut the Line S t in the Point C.

Now to conftruct the little Zodiack, take the Distance $ C, and lay off from E towards A and B for the Tropicks of 25 and Jcf •, again, lay off the Distance 46, from the Point E on one side, for the Parallel of n, and on the other side for the Parallel of ~ ; and finally, take the Distance X a, for marking the Parallel of « on one side, and that of X on the other, and then the little Zodiack may be formed, as per Figure. Now to prick down the* Hour-Points, you must defcribe the Circle M T Z V about the Center E, with the Distance E M, and divide the Circumference thereof into 24 equal Parts, as likewise the Circum- ference of the Meridian A C B D, and from each opposite Point of Division in the Meridian draw ftrait Lines parallel to A B, and in the Circle M T Z V, ftrait Lines parallel to C D, and thro' the Tnterfections of these Lines that are neaRest to the Meridian, draw lightly an Ellipfis from Point to Point, as you fee in the Figure. Thefe Points of Section will be the Hour-Points, those for the Morning being on the left, and those for the Afternoon on the right ; and to have the half and quarter Hour-Points, the two Circles A C B D, M T Z V, must be divided into 96 equal Parts.

Things being thus prepared, transfer all the Hour-Points on another Brass Plate, and Fl 'g- lo &gt; form the Ellipfis B thereon, by lightly drawing Lines from Point to Point, and grave the pro- per Numbers upon it, as they are marked in the 10th Figure. Likewise transfer the Trigon of Signs upon the said Plate, taking each of the Distances between your CompafTes, the one after the other, so that the Signs v and ^ be in the Line of the Hour of 6, and place the Characters of the Signs thereon, as also the first Letters of the Months, each one in their order. When this is done, you must adjuft a Curfor C so as to flide along the middle of the Trigon. This Curfor carries the right Style D, which rifes and falls by means of two small Knuckles.

On the other part of this Plate, is drawn an horizontal Dial according to the common Rules, for the fame Latitude the Analemma is made for, and we place the Style or Axis E thereon upon the Hour-Line of 12, which rifes, falls, and is kept upright by means of a small Spring underneath the Plate.

The Use of this Dial.

Set the Dial parallel to the Horizon, and put the Curfor with it's right Style upon the Day of the Month, or Sign the Sun is in j then turn the Instrument until the fame Hour be fhewn upon the two Dials, which will be the Hour of the Day. If, for example, the Sha- dow of the Extremity of the right Style falls upon the nth Hour on the Analemmatick Dial, and at the fame time the Shadow of the Style of the horizontal Dial falls likewise up- on the 1 ith Hour, on the horizontal Dial ; then the true Hour of the Day will be that of 11. The Conveniency of this Dial confifts in this, that the Hour of the Day may be found thereby without a meridian Line, or Compass ; but then it must be pretty large, to fhew the Hour exactly.

The Conflruclion of an univerfal Polar, Eajl y and West Diah

This Instrument confifts of a very ftrait and fmooth circular Piece of Brass, or other Fg. u. Metal, pretty thick, that so it may preferve it's perpendicular Weight, as likewise that a Groove may be made round the Limb thereof, for a hanging-Piece to flide about the fame, like that on the aftronomical Ring.

o The Construction and Uses Book VIII.

About the Center cf the said circular Piece defcribe the Circumference of a Circle, which divide into twice 90 Degrees. Then draw a right Line from the 90th Deo rC e thro' the Center, representing the Equinoctial, near the Top of which afiume a Point at pleafure, thro' which draw a right Line perpendicular to the Equinoctial-Line, which shall be the Hour- Line of 6. Then to have the other Hour-Lines, you mult lay off the anfwerable Tangents upon the Equinoctial-Line both ways from the Point therein of the Hour-Line of 6 ; as the Tangent of 15 Deg. for the Hour- Points of 5 and 7 ; the Tangent of 30 Deg. for 4 and 8 ; the Tangent of 45 Deg. for 3 and 9, &c. and if Lines be drawn thro' these Points parallel. to the Hour-Line of 6, these will be the Hour-Lines •, and the Length of the right Style' must be equal to the Radius or Tangent of 45 Deg. and must be placed upright upon the Hour- Line of 6, at the Point wherein it cuts the Equinoctial-Line.

At the Points C C, on the Hour-Line of 9 in the Morning, and 3 in the Afternoon, are adjufted two small Knuckles, in which is placed the Piece V, which may lie down upon the circular Piece, and hkewife ftand at right Angles to it. Upon this Piece are pricked down the Hour- Lines of a Polar Dial, from 9 in the Morning to 12, and from 12 to 3 in the Af- ternoon. We shall not here repeat the manner of drawing these Hour-Lines, for we have fufficiently fpoken of this already, as likewise how to draw the Arcs of the Signs \ only ob- serve, that the Parallels of the Signs are divided into every 10th Deg. and the fir if. Letters of the Names of the Months are fet down in their proper Place.

The Style B is adjufted to the circular Piece with a Joint, that so it may be railed or lie flat upon the said Piece •, but it must be raifed so that the Extremity thereof may be exactly over the Point in the Equinoctial-Line cut by the Hour-Line of 6, and the Distance of the said Extremity from this Point equal to the Distance from the Hour- Line of 9 to the Hour- Line of 6.

The Use of the said Dial.

If you have a mind to find the Hour of the Day before Noon, place the little Line on the middle of the hanging Piece L upon the Latitude of the Place-, on that Quadrant on the Right-hand of the Style B, raife the Style so that the Extremity thereof be directly over the Interfection of the Equinoctial and the Hour-Line of 6, and it's Distance from that Point of Interfection equal to the Distance from the Hour-Line of 9 to the Hour-Line of 6. Then holding the Dial fufpendtd by it's Ring, expofe it to the Sun, so that the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style falls upon the Day of the Month ; and you will have the Hour of the Day upon the East or Polar Dial. But if the Hour of the Day be required in the After- noon, you must put the hanging Piece on the Latitude of the Place upon the Quadrant on the left side of the Style, and turn the Dial to the Sun so that the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style falls on the Degree of the Sign or Day of the Month. Then you will have the Hour of the Day as before.

Thus have I laid down the Conftruction and Uses of Portable Dials, chiefly in ufe, which may be fet North and South, without a Compass or Meridian Line. But before I clofe this Chapter, I shall briefly defcribe ibme other Portable Dials, which are curious enough, but are fomething difficult to make.

The first of these is a horizontal Dial of 2 or 3 Inches square, which we make of Brass or any other solid Metal, for a given Latitude, and whose Axis fhewing the Hour, is a Thread fattened at one end to the Center of the said Dial, and the other end of which is hung to the top of a pretty thick Brass Blade, placed at the Extremity of the Dial near the Hour- Line of 12. This Blade may lie down upon the Plarie of the Dial, and is kept upright by means of a Spring underneath the Dial ; and the Height of the Notch wherein the Thread lies above the Plane of the Dial, is equal to the Tangent of the Latitude.

About a quarter of the Height of the said Blade is adjufted thereon a Circle or Ring, proportioned to the bigness of the Dial-Plate. This Ring is moveable by means of a Joint, and so may lie down upon the Blade, and the Blade upon the horizontal Dial-Plane ; and when the Instrument is using, there is a Prop to keep this Ring at the Height of the Equi- noctial, viz. 41 Deg. but when the Thread ferving for an Axis is extended, it must exactly pass thro' the Center of this Ring.

The Concavity of the Ring is divided into Hours, Halves, and Quarters, as the equi- noctial Ring of the univerfal Ring-Dial is ; and there is a Bead or Pin's Head put upon the Thread, that so it may be moved to the Sign the Sun is in, and ferve as aCurfor to fhewthe Hour of the Day in the middle of the Concavity of the Ring or Equinoctial.

Now to place the Bead to the Sign or proper Month, you must have a feparate Brass Rig- let, having the Signs of the Zodiack, as also the Days of the Months drawn thereon in the manner they were drawn upon the Bridge of the univerfal Ring-Dial ; and having placed the laid Riglet from the Center of the horizontal Dial along the Thread or Axis, Aide the Bead to the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, and then take away the Riglet, and so will the Bead be placed for fhewing the Hour of the Day.

On the backfide of the Blade is drawn an upright Line for a Plumb-Line to play on, that so the Dial may be fet level. Note, This Dial may be rendered univerfal, if an Arc of a Circle divided into Degrees be adjufted behind the Bla^le by means of a Joint, so as it may-lie upon the Blade, and the Point whereon the Plumb-Line is hung by the Center of the said Arc ; for then the Dial may be fet to the Latitude, by making the Plumb-Line fall upon the proper Degree on the circular Arc. It is proper also to obferve, that the Hours from eicrht in the Evening to four in the Morning may be taken away from the Equinoctial Ring, that so this Dial may be of use at the Time of the Equinox.

The Use of the aforsaid Dial

Having placed the Bead to the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, or Day of the Month, as before directed, expofe the Dial to the Sun, and turn it to the right or left until the Shadow of the Bead falls upon the fame Hour or Part, on the middle of the Concavity of the equi- noctial Ring, as the Shadow of the Thread or Axis does on the horizontal Dial ; and then that will be the true Time of the Day.

We make several other portable Dials, as horizontal Aftrolabes, being Projections of the Sphere upon the Plane of the Horizon ; other Aftrolabes vertically uied by means of a Plumb-Line ; horizontal Dials made by means of the Sun's Altitudes, which are likewise fet North and South without a Compass, and whereon the Signs are drawn by right Lines iffuing from the fame Center, and the Hour-Lines, curve Lines ; as likewise other portable Dials, which are curious enough, whose Conftruction and Figures we referve for another time.

Horizontal Dials whereon are drawn the Signs, as that of Fig. J. Plate 23. may like- wife be fet North and South without a Compass, if the Dial be so placed in the Sun, that the Shadow of the Extremity of the right Style falls upon the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, or Day of the Month. But here there is this Inconveniency, that the Distance of the Parallel of Cancer from the adjacent Parallels is so small, that the Space of 10 Days there cannot be distinguished. So that when we have done all we can, it is fcare pofiible to make a portable Dial that can fet North and South without a Compass or Meridian Line, without falling into one of these Inconveniencies, either of having the Hour-Lines near Noon too nigh each other, or not exactly fhewing the Hour of the Day at the Time of the Solftices, because of the small Difference that there is in the Sun's Elevations and Declination at those times.



CHAP. VI.

Of the ConflruSlion and Uses of a Moon-Dial, a7id a NoBurnal

or Star-Dial.

Of the Conjlruclion of an horizontal Dial for fhewing the Hour of the Night by the Moon.

THIS is called a Moon-Dial, because by it you may tell in the Night by the Shadow Fig. 12, of the Moon, what Hour- Circle the Sun is in. It confifts of two Pieces or Plates of Brass, or other solid Matter, of a bigness at pleafure. The under-Plate H, is in figure of a Parallelogram, and the upper one A is circular, turns about the ffiadowed Space L, and the Center B, and has a horizontal Dial drawn upon it for the Latitude of the Place, according to the Rules before prefcribed for drawing horizontal Dials. The under Plate hath a Circle thereon divided into 30' unequal Parts, for the Days of a Lunar Month. Thefe Divisions are made thus •, let D E be the equinoctial Line by which the horizontal Dial was drawn, and F the Center of the equinoctial Circle (or the Center by which the equinoctial Line is divided.) About this Center defcribe a dotted Circle, and divide it into 30 equal Parts, or half of it into 15, and having laid the Edge of a Ruler on the Center F, lay it over each Point of the Divisions of the said Circle one after another, and prick down Points upon the equinoctial Line ; then lay the Ruler to the Center B, and on each Point of Division of the equino&ial Line, and divide the Circle H ; and when you have divided half of it, transfer the fame Divisions on the other Semi-Circle, and by this means the whole Circle will be di- vided into 30 unequal Parts for the 30 Days of a Lunar Month, about which Numbers must be graved, as they appear per Figure. This being done, place the Axis B C anfwer- ing to the Elevation of the Pole, and difpofe it so that when it is fet up it may not hinder the Hour-Plate from turning about the Center B.

The Use of this Dial.
The Moon's Age must be found by an Ephemeris, or by the Epact, that so the Point of the Hour-Line of 12 on the horizontal Dial may be applied to the Day of her Age in the Circle H of the under Plate.

But before we go any further, you must obferve, that the Moon by her proper Motion recedes Eastwards from the Sun every Day about 48 Minutes of an Hour, that is, if the Moon is in Conjunction with the Sun on any Day upon the Meridian, the next Day fhe

will



252 The Coriflruaion and Uses Book VIII.

will crofs the Meridian about three quarters of an Hour and iotne Minutes later than the Sun : and this is the Reason that the Lunar Days are longer than the Solar ones ; a Lunar Day being that Space of Time elapfed between her Paflage over the Meridian, and her next PalTage over the fame ; and these Days are very unequal on account of the Irregularities of the Moon's Motion.

Now when the Moon is come to be in Oppofition to the Sun, flie will again be found in the fame Hour-Circle as the Sun is •, so that if, for example, the Sun fhould be then in the Me- ridian of our Antipodes, the Moon would be in our Meridian, and confequently would fliew the fame Hour on our Sun-Dials as the Sun would, if it was above the Horizon. But this Conformity would be of small duration, because of the Moon's retardation of about two Minutes every Hour. If moreover the Sun, at the Time of the Oppofition, be jult letting above our Horizon, the Moon being diametrically opposite to it will he juft nfing, csV. and therefore to remedy the said Retardation, we have divided the Circle H into 30 Parts.

Now the Point of the Hour-Line of 12 on the horizontal Dial being put to the Moon's Age, as above directed, and the under- Plate fet North and South by means of a Compass or meridian Line, the Shadow of the Style will fhew the Hour of the Night ; but to have the Hour more exact, you must know whether it is the first, second or third Quarter of the Moon's Day that you feek the Hour in, that so the Point of the Hour-Line of 12 may be fet against a proportionable part of one of the 30 Spaces or Lunar Days of the Circle H.

The Table on the under-Plate H, is used for finding the Hour of the Night by the Sha- dow of the Moon upon an ordinary Dial. To make this Table, draw 4 Parallel right Lines or Curves of any length, and divide the Space I I into twelve equal Parts for 12 Hours, and the two other Spaces K K into 15, for the 30 Lunar Days.

The Use of this Table.

First obferve what Hour the Shadow of the Moon fhews upon a Sun-Dial ; then find the Moon's Age, and feek the Hour correfpondent thereto in the Table, and add the Hour ihewn by the Sun-Dial thereto -, then their Sum, if it be less than 12, or else it's excefs above 12, will be the true Hour of the Night. For example ; Suppose the Hour fhewn upon the Sun-Dial by the Moon, be the 6th, and her Age be 5 or 20 Days, against either of these Numbers in the Table you will find 4, which added to 6 makes 10, and so the Hour of the Night will be 10. Again, Suppose the Moon fhews the Hour of 9 upon the Sun-Dial, when (he is 10 or 25 Days old, against 10 and 25 in the Table you will find 8, which added to 9, makes 17, from which 12 being taken, the Remainder 5 will be the true Hour fought. And so of others.

To find the Moon's Age, you must first find the Golden Number •, and this is done by adding 1 to the given Year, and dividing the Sum by 19, and the Remainder will be the Golden Number. Then you must find the Epact, by means of the Golden Number •, and this is done thus : Divide the Golden Number by 3, and each Unit remaining being called 10, will be the Epact, if the Sum be less than 30 ; but if above 30, 30 being taken from it, and the Remainder added to the Golden Number will be the Epact. The Epact being found, the Moon's Age may be had after this manner: If the Moon's Age be fough. in January, add o to the Epact •, in February, 2 ; in March, 1 ; in April, 2 ; in May, 3 ; in June, 4 ; in July, 5 ; in Augufi, 6 ; in September, 8 ; in October, 8 •, in November, 10 ; and in December, 10: and the Sum, if it be less than 30, or the Excefs above 30, added to the Day of the given Month (rejecting 30 if need be) will be the Moon's Age that Day. For example, To find the Moon's Age the 14th Day of March, in the Year 171 6, (O. S.) the Golden Number is 7, and the Epact 17 ; therefore adding 1 for March to 17, and the Sum will be 18 ; and if to this 18 be added 14 for the Day of the Month, the Sum will be 32, from which 30 being taken, and the Remainder 2 will be the Moon's Age. Note, This way of finding the Moon's Age is not so exact as we have it by the Ephemeris. Likewise ob- ferve, that vertical Moon-Dials may be made in the manner as the horizontal ones are, but the Divisions of 30 Parts upon equinoctial Dials must be equal, and the moveable Circle divided into 24 equal Parts, cifc.

The Construction of a Noclurnal or Star- Dial.

The 13th Figure fhews the Difpofition of the chief Stars compofing the Conftellation of Urfa Major, and Urfa Minor, about the Pole and the Pole- Star.

The Nocturnal we are going to mention, is made by the Confideration of the diurnal Mo- tion, that the two Stars of Urfa Major, called his Guards, or the bright Star of Urfa Minor, make about the Pole, or the Pole Star, which at prefent is but about 2 Deg. distant from the North Pole.

Now to conftruct this Instrument, you must first know the right Afcenfion of the said Stars, or in what Days of the Year they are found in the fame Hour Circle as the Sun is. This may be found, by Calculation, on a Globe, or a Celeftial Planifphere, by placing the Star in queftion under the Meridian, and examining what Degree of the Ecliptick will be found at the fame time under the Meridian. By this Method you will find that the

bright



Chap. 7. of Sun-Dials. 2,53

bright Star or Guard of the Little Bear, was found twice in one Year with the Sun under the Meridian, viz. in the Year 1715, once the 8th of May, (N. S.) above the Pole, and again the 8th of November below the Pole. Therefore in the said two Days of the Year, the abovementioned Star will be in all the Hour-Circles at the fame Time as the Sun is ; and confequently will fhew the fame Hour. You will find also, that the two Guards of Urfa Major were found two other Days of the Year under the fame Meridian or Hour- Circle as the Sun, viz. the first Day of September below the Pole, and the first Day of March above it. And in these two Days the said Stars will fhew the fame Hours as the Sun does •, but because the fixed Stars return to the Meridian every Day about r Deg. fooner than the Sun, or four Minutes of an Hour, which is two Hours per Month, it is this, which is to be observed for having the Hour of the Sun, which is the Meafure of our Days.

Thefe things being premifed, it will not be difficult to make a Nocturnal or Star-Dial, in the following manner :

The Instrument is compofed of two circular Plates applied on each other ; the greater of Fig- H« which, having a Handle for holding up the Instrument when using, is about two Inches and a half in Diameter, and is divided into twelve Parts for the twelve Months of the Year, and each Month divided into every 5th Day ; so that the middle of the Handle exactly anfwers to the Day of the Year wherein that Star which is used has the fame right Afcenfion as the Sun has. If, for example, This Instrument be made for the two Guards of Urfa Major, the first Day of September muff, be against the middle of the Handle; and if it be made for the bright Star of Urfa Minor, the 8th Day of November must be against the middle of the Handle. Therefore if you will have the Instrument ferve for both these Stars, the Handle must be made moveable about the said circular Plate, that so it may be fixed according to neceffity •, and this is eafy to do by means of two little Screws.

This being done, the upper lefTer Circle must be divided into 24 equal Parts, or twice 12 Hours, for the 24 Hours of the Day, and each Hour into Quarters, according to the Order appearing in the Figure. Thefe 24 Hours are distinguished by a like Number of Teeth, whereof thole whereat the Hours of 12 are marked are longer than the others, that so the Hours may be counted in the Night without a Light.

In the Center of the two circular Plates is adjufted a long Index A, moveable about the fame upon the upper Plate. Thefe three Pieces, viz. the two Circles and the Index, are joined together by means of a headed Rivet, and pierced fo, that there is a round Hole thro' the Center about two Inches diameter, for eafy feeing the Pole-Star thro' it. Note, The Mo- tions of the upper-Plate and Index ought to be pretty ftiff, that so they may remain where they are placed when the Instrument is using.

The Use of this Instrument.

Turn the upper circular Plate 'till the longeft Tooth whereat is marked 12 be against the Day of the Month on the under Plate ; then bringing the Instrument near your Eyes, hold it up by the Handle, so that it leans neither to the Right or Left, with it's Plane as near parallel to the Equinoctial as you can ; and looking at the Pole-Star thro' the Hole in the Center of the Instrument, turn the Index about, 'till, by the Edge coming from the Center, you can fee the bright Star, or Guard of the Little Bear, if the Instrument be adapted for that Star, and that Tooth of the upper Circle that is under the Edge of the Index, is at the Hour of the Night upon the Edge of the Hour-Circle ; which may be known without a Light, by accounting the Teeth from the longeft, which is for the Hour of 12.

You must proceed in this manner for finding the Hour of the Night, when the Inftru- ment is made for the Guards of Urfa Major, which Stars are nearly in a right Line with the Pole-Star, are of the fame Magnitude, and are very useful for finding the Pole-Star.



,OOc



CHAP. VJL

Of the Conftruflion of a Water-Clock,



THIS Clock is compofed of a Metalline well foldered Cylinder, or round Box B, Fig. 15. wherein is a certain Quantity of prepared Water, and several little Cells, which com- municate with each other by Holes near the Circumference, and which let no more Water run thro' them than is neceflary for making the Cylinder defcend flowly by it's proper Weight. This Cylinder is hung to the Points A A by two fine Cords of equal Thicknefs, which are wound about the Iron Axle-Tree D D, which Axle-Tree goes thro' the exact middle of

T t t the



2,54 ^ e Construction and Uses Book VIII.

the Cylinder at right Angles to the Bases, and as it defcends (hews the Hour marked upon a vertical Plane on both sides of the Cylinder. The Diviiions on this Plane are made thus: Having wound up the Cylinder to the top of the Plane from whence you would be^in the Hour-jJivifions, let it delcend 12 Hours, reckoned by a Clock or good Sun-Dial, and note the Place where the Axle-Tree is come to at the End of that Time, and divide the Space the Axle-Tree ha3 moved thro' in 12 equal Parts, each of which fet Numbers to, for the Hours.

We make likewise Clocks of this kind, that fhew the Hour by a Hand turning about a Dial-Plate, as appears in the fame Figure. This is done by means of a Pulley four or five Inches in diameter, fattened behind the Dial-Plate on a Brass or Steel Rod, going thro' the Center thereof; one End of this Rod goes into a little Hole for fupporting it, and at the other End is fixed the Hand (hewing the Hour.

The said Hand turns by means of a Cord put about the Pulley, one end of which fup- ports the Axle-Tree at the Place H, and at the other end is hung a small Weight F ; then as the Cylinder (lowly deicends, it caufes the Pulley to turn about, and confequently the Hand, which by this means (hews the Hour.

The Circumference of the Pulley mult be equal to the Length the Axle-Tree of the Cy- linder moves thro' during twelve Hours •, and for this End you must take that Length ex- actly with a String, and then make the Circumference of the Pulley equal to the Length of the String ; and so the Pulley and Hand will go once round in twelve Hours. When the Cylinder defcends a little too fwift, and confequently the Hand moves too faft, then the Weight F must be made heavier \ and when it defcends too flow, it must be made lighter.

The Confiruftion of the Cylinder or Round Box.

Fig. 16. This Cylinder is fometimes made of beaten Silver, but commonly with Tin. The Dia-

meter of each Base thereof is about 5 Inches, and the Height 2.

The In side of this Cylinder is divided into seven little Cells (and fometimes into five), as the Figure (hews. Thefe little Cells are made by foldering seven Silver or Tin inclined Planes to each Base, and the concave Circumference of the Cylinder; each of which are about 2 Inches long, as BF, A L, EI, D H, CG. Thefe Cells have such an Inclination when they turn about, that they receive the Water thro' a little Hole in each Plane near the Circumfe- rence, and by this means let it run from one Cell to the other ; lb that as the Cylinder rolls, it defcends, and (hews the Hour upon a vertical Plane by the Extremity of the Axle-Tree, which (as we have said) goes thro' the square Hole M in the middle of the Cylinder. Note, In a Cylinder of the abovefaid bigness we ufually pour seven or eight Ounces of diftilled Water. But before the VVater be poured in, you must take great care to well folder the in- clined Planes to the Bases and Circumference. After this, the Water must be poured thro' two Holes pofited on one and the fame Diameter, equally distant from the Center M ; then these Holes must be well (topped with foldering, that so the Air may not get in, or the Water run out while the Cylinder is turning about.

You may perceive, by the Figure, that the inclined Planes within the Cylinder do not join each other, but end in G, H, I, L, F, that so when the Cylinder is winding up, the Water may run fwiftly from one Cell to the other, and the Cylinder remain at any Height one pleafes ; because that at every Motion we give it when winding up, the Water running in a great Quantity thro' the Openings, the Cylinder will prefently aflume it's Equilibrium, which would not happen if the Cells were abfolutely inclofed : for the little Holes in the inclined Planes, are not fufficient for letting the Water run thro' them so fwift as it ought, it going through them but by drops.

It is manifest, if this Cylinder was fufpended by the Center of Gravity thereof, as would happen if the Surface of the Axle- Tree mould exactly pass thro' the Center of the said Cy- linder, it would remain at Rest ; and the Caufe of it's Motion is, that it is fufpended without the Center of Gravity by the Cord's going about the Axle-Tree, which ought not to be, with regard to the. bigness of the Cylinder, and the Quantity of Water in it, but about one Line, or one Line and a half, in thickness.

From what has been said it is evident, that the Swiftnefs or Slownefs of the Motion of the Cylinder depends upon the Thicknefs of the Axle-Tree ; for the thicker the Axle-Tree is, the (lower will the Cylinder defcend, and contrariwife, because it has more or less Excentri- city, and confequently the Water will run more or less fwift from one Cell to another; by which means the Force of it's Motion will be more or less ballanced by the Weight of the Water contained in the opposite Cell.

If you have a mind to fee the Circulation of the W T ater in one of these Cylinders, you may have one made that (hall have a Glass Base ; but then it will be difficult to find a Matter that (ball make the inclined Planes (tick firm to this Glass Cafe, and this to the Circumference oi the Cylinder.

When the Cylinder is nearly descended to the Bottom of the Cords, you mud raii'e it up with your Hand, making it turn at the fame time, so that the Cords may equally roll all along the Axle-Tree, and that it be hung horizontally.

I hzvi



Chap. 8. of Sun-Dials, 255

I have hinted before, that the Water poured into the Cylinder must be diftilled, other- wife it must be often changed, because it makes a Slime about the small Holes thro' which it runs, which hinders it's running as it fhould do.

CHAP. VIII.

Of the ConflruSiion of an Instrument^ Jhewing on what Point of the Compass the Wind blows ^ without going out of ones Room.

YOU must affix to the Ceiling, Mantle-Tree, or Wall of a Room, a Circle divided into 32 equal Parts, for the 32 Points of the Compass, so that the North and South Points thereof exactly anfwer to the meridian Line, which may be eafily done by a Compass. Then there must be a Hand made moveable about the said Circle, and this Hand must be turned about by an upright Axle-Tree, which may be turned round by the least Wind blowing against the Fane at the Top thereof, above the Roof of the Houfe.

But to explain this more fully, confult Fig. 17. The Wind turning the Fane AB (which Fig. 17. ought to be of Iron), fixed to the Top of the Axle- Tree C D, turns this Axle-Tree, which is placed upright, and fuftained towards the Top by the horizontal Plane E F, which is a Piece of Iron fattened to some convenient Place for holding up the Axle-Tree. And at the Bottom of the said Axle-Tree is placed a Steel Square G H, having a shallow small Hole D nude therein for the Point of the Axle-Tree, which ought to be of tempered Steel for the Axle- Tree to ftand in, and move with the least Wind. The Pinion I K must have 8 equal Teeth for the 8 principal Winds. The Teeth of this Pinion take into the Teeth of the Wheel ML, whole Number are 16 or 32, according to the Points denoted upon the Circle YZ; and so this Wheel is turned about by the Fane, as also it's Axis P Q^, which being placed horizontally, goes thro' the Wall T at right Angles to it, as also to the Circte of Winds Y Z, fixed to the Wall. The Hand R fhewing which way the Wind blows, is fixed to the End of this Axle-Tree P Q^, and turns along with it ; and the Names of the Winds must be distinguished by Capital Letters, as on Compass Cards.

By the Difpofition of the whole Instrument it is eafy to perceive, that when the Wind turns the Fane A B, this likewise turns the Axle- Tree C D, which at the fame Time turns the Pinion I K, and the Pinion 1 K the Wheel L M, and this the Axis QJ?, and Q^P the Hand. And so you may fee which way the Wind blows, without going out of the Room.

A fljorl Defcription of the principal Tools used in making
of Mathematical Instruments.

TH E chief and most neceffary Tool is a large Vice, ferving to hold Work while it is filing, &c. It is neceffary that this Tool be well filed, that the Chops meet each other exactly, that they be cut like a File, be in good temperature, that the Screw be adjufted as it fhould be in it's Box ; and that the whole Tool be well fixed to. a Bench. There are also Hand-Vices of different bieneffes, according to the Work to be filed.

The Anvil, which ferves for hammering Work upon, ought to be very fmooth and of tempered Steel, and placed upon a great wooden Billot, so that it may not give way when it is working upon.

There are also Bench- Anvils for ftrengthening and rivetting small Work ; some of these, which are called Bee's, and ferve to make Ferrils upon, &c. have one side conical, and the other in figure of a square Pyramid.

Hand-Saws are made so as to have Branches drawing the Blades (which are of different bigneffes) ftraight by means of Screws and Nuts.

It is neceffary to have good Files. The rough ones made in Germany are the beft ; and the fmooth and baftard Files of England are very good. There are also small rough and fmooth Files, for filing Work Triangular, Square, Circular, Semi-Circular, &?f. Rafps for

fafhioning



2 z6 si Dejcriptio/i of the principal 'Tools

fafbioning of Wood ; several forts of Hammers for firaightening, fmoothing, rivetting, &e. of Work •, Tapes and Plates for making Screws.

Pincers and Knippers of several kinds. SchTars of several Sizes for cutting of Metals. Burnifhing-Sticks for polifhing Work. Steel-Drills of divers bigneiles for making of Holes thro' Work, having one end filed like a C at's Tongue, and the other fharp. Thefe Drills arc used different ways - y for some of them are placed in a drilling Leath, which is compofed of a small square Iron-Bar, and two little Poupets or Heads carrying a Pulley, wherein is placed the Drill in a square Hole going thro' it, which is turned by means of a little Cat-gut Row. Note, This Tool is placed in a Vice when it is using. Brass or Wood may be drilled alio by putting it first into the Vice, and the Drill in a Pulley. Then if the end of the Drill be put into a (hallow Cavity made in a Piece of Brass or Iron, placed against your Bread, and the Point thereof be put to the thing you would make a Hole thro' ; by turning the Drill fwiftly about by means of the Bow, and at the fame time prefiing it with your Bread: against the thing to be drilled, you will foon make a Hole thro' it.

The Leath is also of great use ; the mod fimple of them is made of two Brass or Tron Poupets or Heads Aiding along a square Iron-Bar, and a Support which also Aides alono- the said Bar, upon which the Tools are laid when they are using. At the Top of the Poupets are two Screws of tempered Steel going thro' them, which are fixed by means of Nuts. When this Leath is to be used, it muff, be placed in a Vice, and the thing to be turned, be- tween the two Points of the Screws j and if you have a mind to turn with your Hand, you must use a Cat-gut Bow.

Great Leaths for turning with one's Foot are compofed of two wooden Poupets, and two wooden side Beams, of a Length and Breadth proportional to the bigness of the Leath, which are fuftained by two Pieces of Wood called the Feet of the Leath. Thefe side Beams are placed level, about two or three Inches distant from each other, according to the bigness of the Poupets put between them, and the ends of them are adjufled upon the Feet, which are about four Foot high, and they are likewise joined underneath by two or three crofs pieces of Wood, for rendering the Machine more ftable and solid.

The Poupets, which are two pieces of Wood of equal Length and Thicknefs, have one part of each cut so as to go in between the side Beams •, and the other part, being the Head, is cut square, and solidly pofited upon the side Beams •, and that they may be very firm, there are Clefts of Wood drove with a Mallet into Mortice- Holes at the Bottom of the Pou- pets underneath the side Beams.

In the Head of each Poupet is a tempered fteel Point strongly inclofed in the Wood -, so that when these two Points are brought to each other, they may exactly touch. There is Jikewife a wooden Bar going all along, which is fuftained by the Arms of the Poupets, which may be lengthened and fhortened at pleafure ; and this ferves as a Rest for the Tools, when they are using.

Againft the Ceiling, over the Leath, is fixed an Elastick wooden Rod, having at the End thereof a Cord fattened, which comes down to the Ground, and is fixed to the End of a piece of Wood, called the Treader.

Now when you have a mind to work, the Cord must be put about the Piece to be turned, or about a Mandril adjufted to it ; and prefiing your Foot upon the Treader, you will turn the Work by means of the Rod which fprings ; then with proper Tools laid upon the Sup- port, and against the Piece which is turning, you must first fafhion it with coarfe Tools, and finifh it with fine ones.

Because all Work cannot be turned between two Points, one of the Poupets must be taken away, and inftead thereof must be placed a Piece of Wood furnifhed with Iron, adjufted be- tween the side Beams as the Poupets are, and inftead of having a Steel Point has a very- round Hole therein, in which goes the Colet of an Iron-Arbor, whose other End is fuftained by the Steel Point of the other Poupet.

The said Arbor is fifteen or eighteen Inches long, and is compofed thus : at the End, which is fupported against the aforsaid Piece of Wood, is a Screw of a very large Thread made round the Arbor, upon which are fcrewed on divers Brass Boxes, in which are held fad the Pieces of Wood, which ferve to place the several Works to be turned. And at the other End of the said Arbor are made several Threads of Screws of different bigneffes, that so Screws may be turned.

Near the middle of the said Arbor, is placed a Mandril or wooden Pulley, about which goes a Cord. There may be several other Pieces adjufted on this Arbor, for turning irregular Fi- gures, as Ovals, Hearts, Rofes, wreathed Pillars, csV. All these Pieces are filed into the Figures that one would have them make, and have square Holes in the middle of them, which are adjufted to a Square near the End of the Arbor.

When the Pieces are disposed on the Arbor, the pointed End thereof is placed in a little Hole in the Steel Point of the Poupet, and the other End in the abovefaiu wooden Piece (placed inftead of a second Poupet), which is made fo, that there are two Pieces which fpring, and pufh the Figure backwards and forwards, and by this means move the Arbor backwards and forwards, more or less. according to the Figure ; and this is the

used in making of Mathematical Infiruments* 257

Caufe that the Tool gives the proper Figure to the Work, which moves to it, or recedes from it, according to the Motion of the Arbor ; for the Tool must always be held faft upon the Support. But fmce these kinds of Figures are feldom used for Mathematical Instruments, I ihall fay no more as to this way of turning.

The principal Use of the said Arbor, ferves for turning of Rings, making of Grooves in Compasses, and other the like things. And -this may be done, in placing the Pieces to be turned upon the Wood belonging to the Boxes (of which we have already lpoken), which are adj lifted on the Leath for receiving the said Pieces. Note, The Rests or Supports of the Tools are likewise placed according as the Work requires ; some before, and some side- ways.

Male and Female Screws are formed, by putting the proper Thread on the Arbor into a piece of Wood hollowed into a Screw of the fame Thread, which is placed at the Poupet carrying the End of the Arbor. And the other End of the Arbor, where is a Colet of the fame Thicknefs, is put exactly into the Hole of the abovementioned piece of Wood •, then if the Treader be put in motion by your Foot, the Work will move backwards and forwards, [o as that you may form a Screw or a Nut, with toothed Tools made on purpofe, according to the Thitads marked upon the Arbor. Note, For turning of Wood, Googes, Chiffels, &V. are used. But for Brass and other Metals, fmaller Tools of tempered Steel must be used, as Graving-Tools, cjJV.

Thus have I here, and in the Body of this Work, given a fliort Account of the Tools commonly used in making of Mathematical Instruments. The others may be eafily fupplied according to Neceffity. But since they are ufually made by those that use them, I shall here (hew how to chufe the beft Metal for thtir Conftruction.

The beft Steel comes from Germany. This ought to be without Flaws, Black- Veins, or Iron-Furrows. You may know this by breaking of it, and feeing whether the Grain be very fine and equal.

In forging of Tools, or any thing else of Steel, you must take care of over-heating them, and perform it as foon as poffible •, for the longer they are hot, the more will they be fpoiled.

When the Tools are forged and filed, and you have a mind to temper them, you must heat them led-hot 'till their Colour be fomething redder than a Cherry, and then they must be tempered in Spring or "Well- Water : the colder the Water is, the better. And when they are cold, they must be taken out of the Water, and laid prefently upon a Piece of hot Iron, so long, 'till the Colour they have contracted by tempering is loft, and they become yellow- ifh ; and then they must be thrown again into the Water, without flaying 'till they become blue, because they will lofe their Force.

To temper Bundles of Files, or other Pisces of Iron, you must take Chimney-Soot, the 1 oldeft and grofTeft being the beft, and having finely powdered it, temper it with Pifs and Vinegar, putting a little melted Salt therein, until the whole be as a liquid Pafte. The Soot being tempered, the Tools must be covered over with it, and this covered with Earth, and the whole Bundle thrown into a strong Charcoal-fire ; and when it is become fomething red- der than a Cherry, it must be taken out and thrown into a Vessel full of very cold Water, and then the Files will be fufficiently hard.

We have already fhewed the manner of foldering Brass or Silver to each other ; and We would have it here observed, that Iron may be foldered to Iron, by putting thin Brass upon the Piece to be foldered, and the Powder of Borax, and then covering it all round with Charcoal, and heating it until we perceive the Brass melts and runs.

Note, Brass cannot be hammered when it is hot, for it will break •, but Copper is ham- mered cold or hot : but this is feldom used in making of Mathematical Instruments, because Brass is finer and more convenient. Brass is made with red Copper and Calamin, which is a Stone giving a yellow Tincture to the Metal, and is found in the Country of Liege, and in France.

Gold and Silver may be hammered cold or hot, and may be melted also nearly as Brass is ; and Mathematical Instruments are made with Gold and Silver in the fame manner as with Brass.

The End of the Tranjlation.

The Use of the Seclor in the ConftruSlion of Solar Eclipfes.

DEFINITION I.

H E Path of a Vertex, is that Circle of the Earth which any Place or Vertex on it's Superficies defcribes, in the Space of twenty-four Hours, by the Earth's diurnal Revolution, rallel to the Equator.

Whence the Paths of Vertices are Circles pa-

DEFINITION II.

If a Plane be conceived to touch the Moon's Orbit in that Point, wherein a Line connec- ting the Centers of the Earth and Sun interfects the said Orbit, and Hands at right Angles to the aforenamed Line : And if an infinite Number of right Lines be supposed to pass from the Center of the Sun, thro' this Plane to the Periphery of the Earth, to it's Axis, as likewise to the Axis of the Ecliptick, and the Path of any Vertex ; the said Lines will orthographically project the Earth's Disk, it's Axis, the Axis of the Ecliptick, and the Path of the Vertex, on the aforsaid Plane : and this is the Projection we are to delineate. This being presupposed, it will follow ;

1. That when the Sun is in &, Si, «P, =&, "1, +, the Northern half of the Earth's Axis projected on the aforsaid Plane, viewed on that Side next to the Earth, lies to the Right-Hand from the Axis of the Ecliptick : But if the Longitude of the Sun be in any of the fix oppoGte Signs, it lies to the Left-Hand from the Axis of the Ecliptick.

2. When the Sun's apparent Place happens to be either in v, «, v, 2?, Si, tP, the North Pole lies in the illuminate, or vifible part cf the Disk ; but otherways in the cbfcure.

3. When the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick is 90 Degrees d iff ant from either Pole* that is, when the Sun is in the Equator, the Paths cf the Vertices, or all Circles of the Earth parallel to the Equator, will be projected in right Lines upon the said Plane : but if the Sun's Place be leffer than 90 Degrees, the said Paths will be projected in Ellipfes upon the said Plane, whose conjugate Diameters will be so much the lefTtr, as the Place of the Sun is leffer.

4. The tranfverfe Diameter of the Ellipfes reprefenting any Path, is equal to double the right Sine of the Diltance of the said Vertex from the Pole ; that is, equal to twice the Co-Sine of the Latitude of the Place or Vertex : but the Conjugate, to the Difference of the right Sines of the Sum, and Difference of the Difrances of the Path and Sun from the Pole j that is, equal to the Sine of the Complement of the Sun's Declination added to the Co-La- titude of the Place, less the right Sine of the Difference of the Complement of the Sun's Declination, and the Co-Latitude of the Place.

5. The tranfverfe Diameter lies at right Angles to the Earth's Axis, and the conjugate sp-incides therewith.

SECTION I.

To reprefent in P!a?io, the Path of a Vertex in the Earth's Disk, whose Dijlance

from the North Pole is 38 Deg 32 Min. the Sun's Place being in 10 Deg. 40

Min. 30 Sec. of Gemini, femblable to that which will be projected on a Plane t

touching the Earth's Orbit in that Pointy by fir ait Lines produced from the Sun to

the Earth.

HAVING drawn the Semi-Circle HER, let it reprefent the Northern half of the p} a t e lc , Earth's illuminate Disk (because the Sun is in Gemini) projected upon the said Plane, F] - the Sun it's Center, the Point therein opposite to the Sun, H o R an Arc of the Ecliptick ' S passing through it. Upon O raife G E, perpendicular to the Ecliptick H R, and the Point E wherein it interfecls the Limb of the Disk, will be the Pole of the Ecliptick, and C; E it's Axis.

Again ; Make O E equal to the Radius of a Line of Chords (by Use III. of the Line of Chords)^ from which taking the Chord of 23 Deg. 30 Min. (the conftant Distance of the two Poles) fet it off both ways from E to B and C, draw the Line B C, in which the Northern Pole of the World mail be found.

Make B A equal to A C, the half of this Line, the Radius of a Line of Sines, and there- in fet off the Sine of the Sun's Distance from the folftitial Colure 19 Deg. 19 Min. 30 Sec. from A to P, on the Left-Hand of the Axis of the Ecliptick (because the Sun is in Gemini)* arid draw the Line O P, which will be the Axis of the Earth, and P the Place of the North- Pole in the illuminate Hemifphere of the Disk.

Or the Angle E O I, which the Axis of the Earth and Ecliptick make with each other,
may be more accurately determined by Calculation. For,

So is the Tangent of the Sun's greateft Declination to the J 23 30 00 9^3795^

Tangent of the Inclination of the Axis - - - - * 8 10 54 9^57^7

Count the said 8 Deg. 10 Min. 54 Sec. in the Limb of the Disk from E to I, on the Left-hand, and draw the Line O I, this shall be the Axis ; and the Point P wherein it inter- fects the Line B C, the Place of the Pole in the illuminate Disk.

The next thing required will be the Sun's Distance from the Pole, or the Complement of his Declination, which will be found 6y Deg. 57 Min. 48 Sec. this added to the Distance of the Vertex from the Pole 38 Deg. 32 Min. makes 106 Deg. 29 Min. 48 Sec. and the fame 38 Deg. $1 Min. taken from 6y Deg. 51 Min. 48 Sec. gives 29 Deg. 25 Min. 48 Sec. the Meridional Distance of the Sun from the Vertex.

Make- o E the Radius of the Disk, to be the Radius of a Line of Sines, from which take the Sine of 73 Deg. 30 Min. 12 Sec. (the Complement of 106 Deg. 29 Min. 48 Sec. to a Semi-Circle) and fet it off in the Axis from O to 12 j it there gives the Meridional Interferon of the Nocturnal Arc of the Path with the Axis,

Take the Sine of 29 Deg. 25 Min. 48 Sec. from the fame Line of Sines, and kt it off the fame way from to M, and it there gives the InterfecYion of the diurnal Arc of the Path with the Meridian. Whence M 12 will be the conjugate Diameter of the Path, it being the Difference of the Sines of 70 Deg. 30 Min. 12 Sec. and 29 Deg. 25 Min. 48 Sec. that is, the Difference of the Sines of the Sum, and Difference of the Di- ftances of the Path and Sun from the Pole, which will be the conjugate Diameter of any Path.

Bifect 12 M in C, and through it draw 6 C 6 at right Angles to the Axis of the Globe § and then taking the Sine of 38 Deg. 32 Min. the Distance of the Pole from the Vertex, fee it off from C both ways to 6 and 6; then the Line 6 6 will be the Tranverfe-Diameter of the Path, and C 6 the Semi-Diameter.

Making C 6 equal to the Radius of a Line of Sines, if from the fame you take the right Sines of 15, 30, 45, 60, y$ Degrees, and fet them off severally both ways from C in the Tranverfe-Diameter, and from the Points so found erect Perpendiculars, a 11, a 1, a io, a 2, &c. equal to the Co-Sines of the said Arcs, taken from a Line of Sines, whose Radius shall be C 12, equal to C M, you will have twenty-four Points given, through which the Ellipfis reprefenting the Path shall pass, which shall also fhew the Place of the Vertex at every Hour of the Day. In the fame manner may the Parts of an Hour be pricked down in the Path, in laying off the Sine of the Degrees and Minutes correfponding thereto from C towards 6, and then raiting Perpendiculars from the Points so found in the Semi- Tranfverfe, and fctting off from the said Semi-Tranfverfe each way upon the Perpendiculars,

the Sines of the Complements of the Degrees and Minutes correfponding (o the aforsaid Parts of an Hour. As, for Example ; To denote half an Hour pait n and 12, cake the Sine of 7 Deg. 30 Min. and lay it effon both sides from C to b and b ; then take the Co-fine of 7 Deg. 30 Min. and having raifed the Perpendiculars b ', lay off the laid Sine-Comple- ment from b to f, and you will have the Points in the Periphery of the Eliipfts, for half an Hour pafb n, and half an Hour pafi 12 ; and in this manner may the Path be divided into Minutes, if the Ellipfis be large enough.

Take this for another Example; Suppoie I would reprefent upon the Plane of the Earth's Disk, the Path of Gibraltar ', whose Latitude is 35 Deg. 32 Min. North, and the Sun's Place is in 15 Deg. 45 Min. of Leo. Pig- 2- Having, as before, drawn the Semi-Circle H E R, for the Northern half of the Earth's

illuminate Disk, and drawn O E perpendicular to R H, as alio drawn the Lane C B, which is always equal to twice the Chord of the Sun's greateft Declination, 23 Deg. 30 Min. you must next make AB equal to a Radius of a Line of Sines, and then lay off from A to P, on the Right-hand of the Axis of the Ecliptick (because the Sun is in Leo), the Sine of the Sun's Distance from the folftitial Colure 45 Deg. 45 Mm. or, the Angle E O I may be more nicely determined by Calculation, as was before directed, and then © P I, will be the Axis of the World.

Now the Sun's Distance from the Pole, or the Complement of his Declination is 73 Deo-. 51 Min. which being added to the Complement of the Latitude 54 Deg. 28 Min. the Sum will be 128 Deg. 19 Min. and this taken from 180 Deg. the Remainder will be 51 Deg-. 41 Min. also if 54 Deg. 28 Min. be taken from 73 Deg. 51 Min. the Difference will be iQ°De°-. 23 Min.

Then if you make the Semi-Diameter of the Disk the Radius of a Line of Sines, and lay oft from the Center O to 12, the Sine of 55 Deg. 41 Min. the Point 12 in the Axis will be the Meridional Interferon of the Nocturnal Arc of the Path with the Axis •, and if again you lay off the Sine of 19 Deg. 23 Min. irom © to M, you will have the Meridional Interaction of the Diurnal Arc of the Path with the Axis ; whxce M 12 will be the con- jugate Diameter of the Elliptical Path.

And if you bifecl M 1 2 in C, and draw the Line 6 C 6 at right Angles to the Axis © I ; and then lay off the Sine Complement of the Latitude 54 Deg. 28 Min. from C to 6, on each side the Axis, you will have the Tranfverfe diameter of the Path, which may be drawn and divided, as before directed, for that of Fig. I.

Note, When the elevated Pole is in the obfeure Hemifphere of the Earth, the diurnal Arc, or illuminated Part of the Path, is in that Part of the Ellipfis that lies neaRest -to the said Pole, but ocherways b the more remote ; and where the Ellipfis cuts the Limb of the Disk, are the Points on it from which the Sun appears to rife and fet, &e. And because these Points are necefTary to be found, when an Eclipfe happens near Sun-riling or Sun-fet- ting, they may be determined in the following manner: Sig 1. Lay off the Sun's Declination 22 Deg. 2 Min. upon the Limb of the Disk from R to N,

as also the Complement of the Latitude of 38 Deg. 32 Min. from R to P •, then draw the Line © N, and from the Point P let fall upon the Diameter R H, the Perpendicular P Q^, cutting the Line © N in L. This being done, take the Extent G L, between your Com- pafTes, and lay it off upon the Axis © I from © to K •, then draw a Line both ways from the Point K, parallel to the tranfverfe Axis C 6 of the Path, and the said Line will cut the Limb of the Disk in the Points q p of the Sun's rifing and fetting.

Or the Arc Ip may be more accurately determined by Calculation ; for in the Triangle O Q^L, right-angled at Q^, are given the Angle CKL O, equal to the Sun's Distance from the Pole •, and thf Side Q^G equal to the Sine of tke Latitude. To find the Side O L, which is equal to the Sine Complement of the Arc I p, the Canon is, As the Sine of the Sun's Distance from the Pole, is to Radius ; So is the Sine of the Latitude to the Sine Com- plement of the Arc I p, or I q.

SECTION II.

HAVING in the foregoing Section fhewn how to draw the Path of any Vertex upon the Earth's Disk, as likewise to divide it, the next things necefTary to be given, in or- der to conftruct the Phafes of a Solar Eclipfe in any given Place on the Earth's Super- ficies, are j

I. The apparent Time of the neaRest Approach of the Moon to the Center of the Disk, or the Time of the Middle of the Eclipfe.

II. The neaRest Distance of the Moon's Center from the Center of the Disk in her PafTage over it ; which is equal to her Latitude at the Time of the Conjunction.

III. The Semi-Diameter of the Disk at the Time of the Conjunction,

IV. The Moon's Semi-Diameter at the fame Time.

V. The Sun's Semi-Diameter.

VI. The Semi-Diameter of the Penumbra.

VII. The

Cottjlruclion of Solar Eclipfes. 2,61

VII. The Angle of the Moon's Way with the Ecliptick, which is equal to the Angle that the Perpendicular to the Moon's Way forms with the Axis of the Ecliptick ; and if the Argument of Latitude be more than 9 Sines, or less than 3, the said Perpendicular lies to the Left-hand •, if more, to the Right, from the Axis of the Ecliptick.

VIII. The hourly Motion of the Moon from the Sun at the Time of the Conjunction.

Note, The Semi-Diameter of the Disk is always equal to the Difference of the Sun and Moon's horizontal Parallaxes.

All these for the Solar Eclipfe of May 11, 1 724, will be as follows :

Hours. Mln. fee.

The apparent Time of the neaRest Approach of the Moon to 1 the Center of the Disk, will be J

The neaRest Pittance of the Moon's Center from the Center of the Disk

The Semi-Diameter of the Disk *•

The Moon's Semi-Diameter _--_-.

The Sun's Semi-Diameter - -

The Semi-Diameter of the Penumbra -

The Angle of the Moon's Way with the Ecliptick

The hourly Motion of the Moon from the Sun

Thefe being found from Aftronomical Tables and Calculations, I mall mew how to draw the Line of the Moon's Way, or Path of the Penumbra, upon the Plane of the Earth's Disk, as it falls at the Time of the Conjunction of May 1 1, 1724, and the manner of dividing the fame, for London, Genoa, and Rome.

Having drawn the Semi-Circle HER of the Earth's Disk, and the Paths of London, Plate 26* Genoa, and Rome, by the Directions of the last Section, the Sun's Place being 61 Deg. pj~ , 38 Min. 45 Sec. and the Latitude of London 51 Deg. 30 Min. that of Genoa 44Deg. 27 Min. and that of Rome 41 Deg. 51 Min. you must next draw the Perpendicular to the Moon's Way •, which is done .thus : Take the Semi-Diameter O H of the Disk between your Com- pafTcs, and open your Sector fo, that the Distance from 60 to 60 of Chords be equal to that Extent; then taking 5 Deg. 37 Min. parallel-wife from the Lines of Chords (which is the Angle of the Moon's Way with the Ecliptick, or the Angle that a Perpendicular to her Way makes with the Axis E O of the fame Ecliptick), lay them off upon the Limb of the Disk from E to F, on the Right-hand of the Axis of the Ecliptick, because the Argument of Latitude is more than three Sines, and the Line O F being drawn, will be the Perpendi- cular to the Moon's Way at the Time of the general Conjunction, May 11, 1 724.

Again : Take the Semi-Diameter of the Disk between your CompafTcs, and open the Sec- tor fo, that the Distance from 61 ~*, the Semi-Diameter of the Disk, on each Line of Lines be equal to that Extent ; then the Sector remaining thus opened, take between your Com- paflTes the parallel Extent of 32 ~ + , the neaRest Approach of the Moon to the Center of the Disk, and lay it off from O to M, upon the Perpendicular to the Moon's Way ; then, if upon the Point M, a Perpendicular, as M G, be drawn both ways, this will be the Line of the Moon's Way, or Path of the Penumbra.

Now to divide the said Path into it's proper Hours, which let be for London. The mid- dle of the general Eclipfe, or the Time when the Moon's Center will be at M, happens at 12 Minutes paft 5 in the Afternoon : fay, As 1 Flour or 60 Minutes is to %5 Min. 18 Stc. the hourly Motion of the Moon from the Sun ; So is 12 Minutes the Time more than 5 in the Afternoon, to 7 Min. 3 Sec. the Motion from 5 a-Clock to the middle.

Your Sector remaining opened to the last Angle it was fet to, take the Extent from 7 ~ to 7 A- on each Line of Lines, and fetting one Foot of your CompafTcs upon M, with the other make a Point on the Moon's Way to the Right-hand ; and this shall be the Place of the Penumbra at 5 a-Clock in the Afternoon at London ; which therefore denote with the Number V.

The hourly Motion of the Moon from the Sun is 35 Min. 18 Sec. therefore take the pa- rallel Extent of 35',?, on the Line of Lines, between your Compasses, and fetting one Foot upon V, with the other make Points on each side V, these shall fhew the Place of the Moon's Center at the Hours of IV and VI ; and if from these Points you farther fet off the said Ex- tent in the said Line, you may thereby find the Place of the Moon's Center for every Hour, v/hilft the Penumbra shall touch the Disk : and if the Space between every Flour be divided into 60 equal Parts, you shall have the Place of the Moon's Center in the Line of her Way, to every fingle Minute of Time.

Or, you may take the Semi- Diameter of the Disk between your CompafTcs, and make a Scale thereof, in dividing it, by means of the Sector, in the following manner: Open the Sector fo, that the Distance between 61 ff, the Semi-Diameter of the Disk, and 61 -i* on the Line of Lines, be equal to the Semi-Diameter of the Disk. This Distance lay off from A to B : then your Sector remaining thus opened, take between your CompafTes fucceftive- ly, the parallel Distances of each Division to 61 £*, and lay them off from A towards B, every 5th of which Number, and your Scale will be divided into Minutes. And by the fame Method you may divide each Minute into Parts, ferving for Seconds, if your Scale be long enough. Now your Scale being divided, you may make use thereof, for drawing and di- viding the Path of the Penumbra, without the Sector : For 32 44 of these Parts of the Scale, give you the neaRest Distance of the Moon's Center to the Center of the Disk. Also 7 ^ Parts of the said Scale, will be the Distance of the Center of the Penumbra from the Point M, at five a-Clock ; and 35 44 of the Parts of the Scale, will be the Distance from Hour to Hour, on the Path of the Penumbra.

Now to fix Numbers upon the said Path of the Penumbra, reprefenting the Hours when the Moon's Center will be at the said Hours, at Rome and Genoa, we must have the Dif- ference of Longitude between London and the said two Places given ; as also, whether they are to the East or West from London; the Difference of Longitude between London and Rome, is 12 Deg. 37 Min. and between London and Genoa, is 9 Deg. 37 Min. they being both to the East from London. Each of these being reduced to Time, the former will be 50 Mi- nutes, and the latter 38 Minutes, wherefore 5 a-Clock for Rome on the Moon's Way, must be at 10. Min. pad 4, {ox London ; and 6 a-Clock at 10 Minutes paft five, &c. Underftand the fame for other Hours and Minutes. I have noted the Hours for Rome under the Line of the Moon's Way, with Roman Characters. Again, 5 a-Clock on the Moon's Way for Genoa, must be fet at 22 Minutes paft 5 for London ; and 6 a-Clock, at 22 Minutes paft 6, ciJV. I have noted the Hours for Genoa with small Figures over the Line of the Moon's Way.

Note, The 10 Minutes, and 22, are each of them the Complement of 50 Minutes, and 38 Minutes to 60 Minutes.

SECTION III.

To determine the apparent Time of the Beginning or End of a Solar Eclipfe, the Time when the Sun foall be eclipfed to any pojjible Number of Digits, the Inclination of the Cuffs of the Eclipfe, and the Time of the vifble Conjunction of the Luminaries^ in any given Latitude.

TH E Paths of London. Rome, and Genoa, as also the Path of the Penumbra being drawn and divided, as directed in the two last Sections for the great Eclipfe of 1724, which •will be a very proper Example for fufficiently explaining this Method, take between your CompafTes the Semi-Diameter of the Penumbra 32 ■£-£, from the Line of Lines on the Sector, it being first opened to the Semi-Diameter of the Disk 61 |4 *, or you may take it from your Scale, which being done, carry one Foot of your CompafTes along the Line of the Moon's Way, from the Right-hand to the Left •, wherein find such a Point, that if the said Foot be fet, the other Foot shall cut the fame Hour or Minute, in the Path of the Vertex of any given Place ; then the Points in the Paths upon which either of the Feet of your CompafTes ftand, will fhew the Time of the Beginning of the Eclipfe at that Place.

For example ; If you carry the Semi-Diameter of the Disk along the Line of the Moon's Way, you will find that one Foot of the CompafTes being fet at a, on the Moon's Way, which is 41 Min. paft 5 in the Afternoon for London, the other Foot will fall on the Point b ©n the Path of London, which is likewise 41 Min. paft 5 in the Afternoon ; wherefore the Beginning of the Eclipfe ax. London will be at 41 Min. paft 5 in the Afternoon.

Again : If you carry ftill on the Foot of your CompafTes, they remaining yet opened to the Semi-Diameter of the Disk, and find another Point on the Moon's Way, whereon if you fix one Point of your CompafTes, the other shall cut the Path of the Vertex at the fame Hour or Minute, which this ftands upon in the Line of the Moon's* Way, the Points whereon your CompafTes ftand in either Path, shall fhew the Minute the Eclipfe ends.

For example : One Foot of the CompafTes being fet to g in the Path of the Vertex, which is 29 Min. paft 7 in the Afternoon, the other Foot will fall upon the Line of the Moon's Way, a: the fame Hour and Minute, viz. 29 Min. paft 7 ; therefore the Eclipfe ends at London 29 Min. paft 7 : but take notice, that the Line of the Moon's Way fliould be conti- nued further out beyond 7 a-Clock, that so the Point of the CompafTes may fall upon the proper Minute, to wit, 29.

Moreover : If one side of a Square be applied to the Ecliptick H R, and so moved back- wards or forwards, until the other side of the said Square cuts the fame Hour or Minute in the Path of the Vertex, and Line of the Moon's Way ; this fame Hour or Minute will be the Time of the vifible Conjunction of the Luminaries at the given Place.

For example ; When the perpendicular side of the Square cuts the Path of the Moon's Way at e, which is 37 Min. paft 6, the said side will likewise cut the Path of the Vertex for London at c, which is 37 Min. paft 6 ; therefore the Time of the vifible Conjunction of the Luminaries at London will be 37 Min. after 6,

Draw the Line a b, as also the Line O b ; this mall reprefent the vertical Circle, and the Angle © b a will be the Angle that the vertical Circle makes with the Line connecting the Centers of the Sun and Moon, at the Beginning of the Eclipfe at London.

Draw the Line g m ; to wit, join the Points in the Path of the Vertex, and the Puth of the Moon's Way, which fhews the End of the Eclipfe at London ; and the Line O g - y then the Angle O g m, will be that which the vertical Circle forms with the Line joining the Centers of the Luminaries.

Take the Semi-Diameter of the Sun, viz. 15 44 between your Compasses, either from your Sector, opened as before directed, to the Semi-Diameter of theDisk, or from your Scale, and with that upon the Center c (to wit, the Minute in the Path of London, whereat the Time of the vifible Conjunction happens) defcribe a Circle ; this Circle shall reprefent the Sun.

Again -, Take the Moon's Semi-Diameter 16%-% from your Sector (remaining opened as before), or your Scale, and upon the Center e (to wit, the Minute in the Path of the Moon's Way, whereat the true Conjunction happens at London) defcribe another Circle. This shall cut off from the former Circle so much as the Sun will be eclipfed, at the Time of the vifible Conjunction.

From O draw the Line 0^: This mall reprefent the vertical Circle, and v the vertical Point in the Sun's Limb, whereby the Pofition of the Cufps of the Eclipfe, in refpect of the Perpendicular passing thro' the Sun's Center, are plainly and eafily had.

Produce d c 'till it interfects the Moon's Limb in p, then shall p q be the part of the Sun's Diameter eclipfed, ?t the Time of the greateft Obfcuration at London : And if the Sun's Diameter be divided into 12 equal Parts, or Digits, you will find p q to be 11 -££s of those Parts or Digits.

"Whence at London^

H. M. Aftern.

The Beginning of the Eclipfe, May 11, 1724, at - - - 05 41

The vifible Conjunction of the Luminaries 06 37

Digits then 1 1 -AV

The End * * « 07 29

After the fame manner, the Beginning of the Eclipfe at Genoa will be 06 27
Vifible Conjunction, or middle of the Eclipfe 07 20

The Sun will there fet eclipfed, and the Eclipfe will be Total.

And the Beginning of the Eclipfe at Rome is - - - 06 42

The vifible Conjunction, or Middle, will there be when the Sun is fet a and confequcntty also the End.

I have, as you fee in the Figure, also drawn a fourth Path (or Edinburgh, whose Latitude is $$ Deg. 56 Min. and Longitude about 3 Deg. to the West from London. Wherefore for each Hour in the Moon's Way for London, you ffiuft account 1 2 Min. more for the fame Hour at Edinburgh ; that is, for example, 5 a-Clock on the Line of the Moon's Way for Edinburgh) must ftand at 1 2 Min. paft 5 at London. Underftand the fame for other Hours, &V.

And by proceeding according to the Directions before given, you will find,

Note, The Path of the Moon's Way ought to be continued out further to the Left-hand* in order to determine the Time of the End of the Eclipfe at Edinburgh.

If you have a mind to know at what Time any poffible Number of Digits or Minutes shall be eclipfed at any Place in the Sun's antecedent or confequent Limb ; divide the Sun's Diameter into Digits or Minutes, and cut off the Parts required to be eclipfed from the Semi-Diameter of the Penumbra ; then take the remaining part of it between your Com- passes, and carrying it along the Line of the Moon's Way, find the first Point in it, in which placing one Foot, the other will cut the fame Hour in the Path of the Place that the fixed Foot ftands upon ; then the Hour and Minute in either Path upon which the Feet of your Compasses ftand, will be the Time of that Obfcuration.

As, for example •, Suppose it was required to find at what Time 6 Digits or 4- of the Sun's Diameter shall be eclipfed in his antecedent Limb at London : Cut off 4 of the Sun's Semi- Diameter from the Semi-Diameter of the Penumbra, and carrying the Remainder, as directed, you will find, that if one Point of your Compasses be fet at 6 Hours 9 Minutes in the After- noon, on the Path of the Moon's Way, the other Point will also fall upon the fame Hour and Minute in the Path of London -, and therefore the Time when the Sun's antecedent Limb at London will be half eclipfed, will be at 9 Minutes paft 6 ; and when it's confequent Limb will be half eclipfed, will be at 5 Minutes paft 7.

Fig. 2, Now to determine the Pofition of the Cufps of the Eclipfe, for example, at London :

Draw a Circle A D B E, reprefenting the Sun's Body, and the right Line A C B, reprefent- ing his vertical Diameter. This being done, lay off the Angle © b a upon the Sun's Limb from A to D, draw the Diameter E C D, and the Point D will be the firlt Point of the Sun's Limb obfcured by the Moon at the Beginning of the Eclipfe.

Fig. 3. Again ; To determine the Pofition and Appearance of the Eclipfe at the Time of the

middle, or greateft Obfcuration, take the Sun's Semi-Diameter between your CompaiTes, and upon the Point C, defcribe a Circle •, then draw the vertical Diameter A C B, and make the Angle A C D equal to the Angle v c p, and draw the Diameter D C F. This bein» done take the Moon's Semi-Diameter between your CompaiTes, and having laid off from the Center C to E, the Distance c e in. the first Figure ; upon the Point E, as a Center, de- fcribe an Arc cutting the Sun's Limb, and the Pofition and Appearance of the Eclipfe at the Time of the greateft Obfcuration, or the middle, at London, will be as you fee in the Figure.

Laftly, To determine the Pofition of the End of the Eclipfe, draw a Circle (as in the 4 th Figure), and crofs it with the vertical Diameter ACB; then make the Angle ACE equal to the Angle O g m, and draw the Diameter E D •, then will the Point E on the Limb of the Sun, be that which is last obfcured, or whereat the Eclipfe ends.

If you have a mind to find the Continuation of total Darknefs at any Place where the Sun will be totally eclipfed, cut off the Semi-Diameter of the Sun, from the Semi-Diameter of the Penumbra, and taking the Remainder between your Compafles, carry it along the Line of the Moon's Way, and find the first Point in it j on which placing one Foot, the other will cut the fame Hour in the Path of the Place, which Hour note dow r n. Again -, Carrying on further the fame Extent of your Compasses, find two Points on the Paths of the Vertex and Moon's Way, which shall fhew the fame Hour and Minute on them both. This Time also note down ; then fubftracl the Time before found from this Time, and the Difference will be the Time of Continuance of total Darknefs.

T is now almost forty Years since I tranllated Mr Bions French Book of Mathematical Instruments into Englijh. I did it with Reluctance, at the Defire of Friends, and a little for the Sake of Interefl, the Sub- ject becoming fomewhat unpleafant to me, at that Time, by Use and long Acquaintance j for having at first moflly applied myfelf, even from twelve Years of Age, in the Knowledge of Mathematical Instruments, I began to be tired and fatiated, as I may fay, with them, when I undertook this Work, although they are generally so pleafing and useful, and betook myfelf to the more refined and diffi- cult Branches of the Mathematicks. I was reading, and trying to underfland Sir Ifaac Newton's Mathematical Principles of Natural Philofophy, at the Time I was pre- vailed upon to tranflate Mr Bions Book, which I liked to do much better. The defire of travelling further, and -acquiring new Knowledge in this amiable Science is very natural to one who loves it. But having fet about the Bufinefs, I foon perceived that many French Instruments of Mr Bions were excelled by some of ours, of the fame kind in Contrivance ; and as to Workmanfhip, I never did fee one French In- flrument so well framed and divided, as some of ours have been ; for Example, Mr Sutton's Quadrants, made above one hundred Years ago, are the fined divided In- flruments in the World ; and the Regularity and Ex?xtnefs of the vafi Number of Circles drawn upon them is highly delightful to behold. The mural Quadrant at the Royal Obfervatory at Greenwich, far exceeds that of the Royal Obfervatory at Paris. Also the Theodolites of Mr Sijfon and Heath. The Clocks and Watches of Mr Graham, Tompion, and Quare. The Orreries of Mr Graham and Mr Wright. And many more curioufly contrived, and well executed Mathematical Instruments which I could mention, far exceed those of the French, or indeed any other Na- tion in the World. The making good Mathematical Instruments is almofl pecu- liar to the Englijh, as well as their Skill in all Branches of the Mathematicks and Natural Philofophy has been generally fuperior to that of other Nations.

I therefore thought of adding some Englijh Instruments to those of Mr Bion, and accordingly made choice of such which I thought were then preferable to his of the fame Kind, and moil pleafing to me.

This firfl Impreflion being publifhed, imperfect as it was, rather for want of Incli- nation in me, than Abilities to make it better, was foon fold off; and the Bookfeller and others, at Times for many Years lafl pafl, were putting me in mind of preparing a iecond Impreflion with Additions. But being at those Times always immerged in other more delightful Branches of the Mathematicks, efpecially pure Geometry and Mechanicks, I declined doing it. But having at last been prevailed upon, through feve- ral Motives, this second Impreflion is here published, with a Supplement or Appendix, containing the Defcriptions, and some of the Uies of such Instruments as were before omitted, or have been made better, as I thought since, for the Purpcfes defigned by them, and wherein there are some other Instruments, though juft touched upon and defcribed, yet there is given so much of their Nature and Use, as may fatisfy theCuriofi- ty of some ; and for those who defire more ample and compleat Defcriptions of them, I have so far fatisfied their Wifhes, as to point out some of the several Writings where they are treated of more at large.

In a Word, this Treatife here published is a fufficient Explanation of the main Body of all the Instruments of the most Value, and in the greateft Efteem, that are generally made, and fold in the Shops of the Mathematical Instrument-Makers, and which have been contrived to anfwer the various useful Purpofes of practical Mathe- maticks. And if a better Book on this Subject has not yet been compiled, it is because the able Geometricians, who are the most capable of making one, have the least Incli- nation for it, because of the small Honour and Reputation they would acquire by it ; and thus it has happened that there never has yet been a very good Book upon this Subject.

266 Of Instruments for drawing or copying of Draughts,

made, viz. by extracting the Cube Root of each Number between i and 100, and multi- plying the Root by ioo. The fame Scales of Divisions are likewise upon the part, or half C L, of the long Rule G C, beginning near the Point C. The first of these Divisions of equal Parts are for fixing the long Rule C G, and the Sockets, so as to readily defcribe a Figure, whose Circuit (hall have a given Proportion to the Circuit of a given similar Fi- gure. The second, for the Defcription of a Figure whose Area shall have a given Propor- tion, to the Area of a given similar Figure. And the third, for the Defcription of the re- prefentation of a Solid that shall have a given Proportion to a given Solid.

Dd is a turned Brass Pillar about | of an Inch long, with a Worm at the End to go into a very even Table ; the Sides FD, D E of the Parallelogram are fattened to the Top D of this, so as to be any ways moveable horizontally. And at the Ends B, C, are equal round Holes wherein are put a Steel Point C c for moving over every part of a given Fi- gure or Draught, and a Pencil Point B b for defcribing a Figure or Draught similar to a given one. Laftly, The turned Brass Pillar A a has a free horizontal Motion about the Point A, and a little Wheel a upon the Bottom of it to run upon the Table, like one of the Legs of a Child's Go-Cart. The Lengths of these Pillars and the two Points C c , B b must be such, that in all Pofitions of the Parallelogram the Points d, c, b, a&gt; may be in one Plane, viz. upon the Surface of the Table, or of a Paper laid upon it.

The Useof this Instrument is contained in the Defcription, fufHciently to be apprehended by any intelligent Perfon.

II. Of the Camera Obfcura.

This is a Room darkened in the Day-time, and chiefly when the Sun fhines, having a Convex-Glass or Lens placed in an Hole in the Window-fhutter, through which Glass the Light only passes into the Room ; which GJafs if properly placed, will project the Pictures of Objects from without Doors, inverted upon any white upright Surface within the Room, placed at it's focal Diflance from the Glass. And here it is to be noted, first, that the Pictures will appear more bright and lively in the Morning, if the Window and Objects be to the Welt, and contrariwife in the Afternoon, if the Window and Objects be to the East, and about Noon if the Window and Objects be Northwardly.

For the Convenience of directing the Axis of the Glass towards any Object, the Lens is placed in a large cylindrical Hole boared through the middle of a wooden Ball, called a Sky Optick-ball, which is eafily moved about it's Centre, within a hollow wooden Zone, and fattened to the Window-fhutter : This Zone confifts of two half Zones fcrewed toge- ther in the middle after the Ball was let in ; and the Concavity of the Zone hinders the Light from passing between it and the Ball.

When the focal Distance of the Lens is 8 or 10 Feet, the Pictures of the Objects may be received upon a large Screen covered with white Paper, or Linnen, or painted white, and to have it moveable upon small Wheels, that so it may be brought to a proper Distance from the Lens.

The Pictures of the Objects will be so much the larger as the focal Distance of the Lens is longer, and so much the brighter, all things else the fame, as it's Aperture is larger.

The inverted Pictures may be viewed upright by reflecting them downwards upon a Table by means of a Looking-Glass, whose Surface is fet at an half right Angle, or thereabouts, to the Horizon.

To draw Copies of Prints, Paintings, &c. by tracing their PicJures formed by the Lens.

Place the Original at a proper Distance without Doors, and let it's Picture within the dark Room be received upon a Sheet of Paper, or upon a large plane Glass, not polifhed on one side ♦, this Glass being placed upright with it's rough side turned from the Window, you may eafily trace upon it with a Black-lead Pencil, the Out-Lines of the Picture. And if a Sheet of fine Paper be ftrained over the Glass, the Strokes of the Pencil will appear through it when held against the Sky-light •, and thus the Picture may be drawn upon the Paper. But note, The eafieft way of making the Image diftinct upon the Glass, when fixed, is to place the Lens in a Tube that shall flide within another fhort Tube fixed in the Window- Shutter.

To do this without the Trouble of making two "Draughts.

Having ftrained the drawing Paper upon a fmooth Board, lay it upon a firm Table, to be placed under the Lens in the Window-fhutter, and let an inclined Looking-Glass g h i k, Fig. 2. N. I to refl e & tne Picture upon that Paper, be fixed over the Table a c , thus, a b and c d (Fig. 2. N. I.) are two Boards fixed upright upon the Table on each hand of the drawing Paper •, p a\ and e f is a third Board equal in Length to the Distance between the upright Boards having a round Pin at each End of it ; when this Board is laid over the back-side of a Looking- Glass, and fcrewed to the Frame of it, the Pins must be lodged in two Slits at the Tops of the upright Boards •, and by twoNuts that fcrew upon the Pins. The Glass may be ftayed at a proper Inclination for throwing the Picture directly down upon the Paper bdow, and then it may be made diftinct by moving the Tube that holds the Lens inwards or outwards.

III. Of the portable Camera Obfcura.

This Instrument when carrying or not used, is like a wooden Box, and some of them are more like very large Folio Books ; the rtafon of the whole Contrivance is this. The Rays of Light that come from the Object P CjR, after parting through the Lens E, are tending to Fig. 2. N. H. form an Image p q r, but being reflected upwards by the Looking-Glass ABC, they form an horizontal Image x z, upon a Glass Plane, whose unpolifhed side lies uppermoflr, upon which a Copy of the Picture may be fketched out by a Black-lead Pencil ; and to the Spectator facing the Object the Picture appears upright, there is only reprefented in this Figure a Section of the Instrument through the Axis of the Tube that holds the Lens, and through the middle of the Box and Looking-Glass within it : The Section of the Side op- pofite to the Tube is not here reprefented, it is only a Door opening side ways •, the Edges of the rough Glass at the Top are placed in two Grooves upon the Sides of the Box, and being taken off, it is placed in a Drawer e /, at the Bottom of the Box ; the Looking-Glass ABC may also be drawn out of the Grooves in the Sides of the Box and lodged in the fame Drawer. The square wooden Tube confifts of three Parts ; the innermost that carries the Lens draws inwards or outwards, to make the Pictures diftinct ; the Parts g h, i k, be- ing fixed together, and to the Box, with small Bolts, may be taken afunder and put into the Box •, then the Lid a t at the Top, and the Door at the End, being both fhut and fixed, the Instrument becomes more commodious for carriage ; the infide of the Lid whose Sec- tion is a t (Fig. 3.) has two Wings that open at right Angles on each Side of it, and Rest upon the Sides of the Box, to darken as much as poflible the Image upon the rough Glass.

IV. Of another portable Camera Obfcura for drawing.

Into the middle of the top of a square Box (Fig. 4.) there is put an upright Tube, or Fig. £ rather a piece of a square Pyramid ; in the top of which there Aides a ftiort square Tube, having a broad Object-Glass fixed in a Hole at the top of it •, the focal Distance of the Glass being fomewhat less than it's utmost Height above the Bottom of the Box, where the Pic- tures of Objects are to be formed by it : upon one edge of the Top of this Tube there turns a Lid, having a plane Looking-Glass fixed fiat upon the infide of it, and thereby capable of being ftayed at any inclination proper for reflecting the Rays that come from an Object directly downwards through the Object-Glass, to the drawing Paper fixed upon the Bottom of the Box, where the Picture of the Object will be diftinctly painted, when the Object-Glass is fet to a proper Height : the Box being quite clofed and dark within, this Picture is viewed through a small Hole in the upper Edge of the Box Hoped off from the Side opposite to the Object where the Draught's-Man ftands, and puts his Hand and Pencil through a Hole made in this side ; or rather in a long piece that Aides in it horizontally, ac- cording as he has occafion to move his Hand. The fc'^Tare Box is a b c d e /, the fixed Tube is£-, the Aiding Tube is h, the Object-Glass is o, the inclined Looking-Glass is /, the Hole for the Eye is k y that for the Hand in the Slider m n is /.

There are other portable Camera Obfcura's that have been made and are defcribed in Books, only differing from these either in bigness or some less efTential Parts. There are two of them to be feen at the End of Mr s'Gravefande's Effay on Perfpeilive \ a large one •and a small one •, the former being almost like a common Chair, or Sedan, with a folding Table in it, to lay the drawing Paper upon, and in which may be put a small Stool for the Draught's-Man to fit upon. The Convex Lens and inclined Looking-Glass is a Top over the horizontal Table : where he gives some useful Cautions. 1. There must be used but one Convex- Glass, since when there are two or more the true Appearance of the Object is loft : the fame inconvenience will also lie in the way, when a Concave Looking-Glass is used in the Conftruction of the Machine. 2. When more than two plane Looking-GlafTes are used, the Rays after a triple Reflexion become so weak as to obfeure the Appearances of the Objects ; and when two Looking-GlafTes are used they ought to be well polifhed.

3. The Looking-GlafTes must not be put into the Machine, because in such a clofe Place the Draught's-Man's Breath will fully the GlafTes, which cannot happen to the Convex-Glass, by reason of it's being inclofed within a Tube. He fays also, that the Faces of-Perfons

may be drawn in Minature, when the Picture of the Perfon upon the drawing Paper is

not above half an Inch, but when it is bigger it is not eafy to trace out the exact Refem-

blance, because each Point of the Face has not the fame Focus.

CHAP. II.

Offome more modern Instruments used at Sea, in taking the Degrees of the Altitude of the Sun or Stars, or the Degrees of their Di- fiances.

E S I D E S the Instruments for this Purpofe already fpoken of in our Treatife of Ma- thematical Instruments, there have been of late Years several others actually made, defcribed, and used for this Purpofe, indeed not effentially differing from one another, all of them being defigned to be used where the Motion of the Objects, or Obferver, or any thing occafioning an unfteadinefs in the other Instruments when using, make the Obferva- tions difficult or fubject to Error.

The first of thcie Instruments for taking the Moon's Diflance from the fixed Stars was in- vented long ago by Sir Ifaac Newton, as appears in a Paper of Sir Ifaac Newton's own Hand-Writing, found amongfl those of the late Dr Halley, and the very Instrument itfelf that Sir Ifaac Newton either made himfelf, or caused to be made so long ago as when Dr Halley went about making the Catalogue of the fixed Stars in the South-Seas, which was in the Year -1672, was not long ago to be feen at Mr Heath's the Mathematical Instrument- Maker in the Strand. See the Philosophical Tranfaclions, Number 465, for the Year 1742.

Many Years after this, Instruments for doing the fame thing, were publifhed in the Phi- lofophical Tranfaftions, Number 420, and 425, under the Name of Mr Hadley's Octants or Quadrants, not much differing from Sir Ifaac's. Two or three more of the like, not effen- tially varying from the Original one of Sir Ifaac Newton, have also been made and pub- lifhed under the Name of Mr Caleb Smith, with Engravings of two of them defcribed in a printed Sheet of Paper, entituled The Use of the new Instrument, or Sea Quadrant, for taking Altitudes of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, from the vifible Horizon, by an Obfervation either forwards or backwards, as well as any other angular Distances, without Impediment or Inter- ruption from the Ship's Motion, whereby the Latitude at Sea may be obtained with greater Certainty and more frequently, than by any other Instrument commonly used for that purpofe. Sold by Mr Heath, Mathematical Inflrument-Maker in the Strand, and several other Mathe- matical Instrument- Makers, and by some Bookfellers too.

But as Sir Ifaac Newton has now been found to be the flrfb Inventor of this Instrument, and as one of those not much different from his, called by the Name of Mr Hadley's Sea- Octant or Quadrant, is now m* . J \in vogue and used at Sea, I shall therefore in this Chapter give only the Defcription and Ule of Sir Ifaac Newton's Quadrant of this Kind, and that other called Mr Hadley's, leaving Mr Smith's to be fcen in the Paper above defcribed.

I. The Defcription and Use of Sir Ifaac Newton'j Sea Instrument or Quadrant.

Fig. 5. The Figure P Q,R S denotes a Brass Plate accurately divided in the Limb D QJnto half

Degrees half Minutes, and ,' r Minutes by a Diagonal Scale ; and the 4 Degrees, and f Minutes, and -,\ Minutes, counted for Degrees, Minutes, and 4- Minutes. AB is a Tele- fcope three or four Feet long, fixed on the Edge of that Brass Plate. G is a Speculum fixed on the said Brass Plate perpendicularly, so as to be inclined 45 Degrees to the Axis of the Telescope, and intercept half the Light which would otherwise come from the Tele- fcope to the Eye. C D is a moveable Index turning about the Centre C, and with it's fidu- cial Edge fhewing the Degrees, Minutes, and ^ Minutes on the Limb of the Brass Plate P Qj the Centre C mud be over againfl the middle of the Speculum G. H is another Speculum parallel to the former, when the fiducial Edge of the Index fhewing the Degrees falls upon 00 Deg. 00 Min. 00 Seconds ; so that the fame Star may then appear through the Telescope in one and the fame place, both by the direct Rays, and by the reflected ones i but if the Index be turned, the Star shall also appear in two places, whose Diflance is mewed on the Brass Limb by the Index.

The Use of this Instrument.

By this Instrument the Diflance of the Moon from any fixed Star is thus observed : view the Star through the Telescope by the direct Light, and the Moon by the reflected Light, or the contrary, and turn the Index 'rill the Star appears to touch the Edge of the Moon, and the Index will fhew upon the Brass graduated Arch of the Instrument, the Diflance of the Star from the Limb of the Moon ; and though the Instrument fhakes by the Motion of your Ship at Sea, yet the Moon and Star will move together as if they did really touch one another in the Heavens, so that an Obfervation may be made as exactly at Sea as at Land ; and by the fame Instrument may be obfervcd exactly the Altitudes of the Moon and Stars by bringing them to the Horizon, and thereby the Latitude and Times of Obfervations may be, determined more exactly than by the Ways now in Use. Note, In the Time of the Obferva- tion, if the Instrument moves angularly about the Axis of the Telescope, the Star will move in a Tangent of the Moon's Limb, or of the Horizon ; but the Obfervation may notwith- standing be made exactly, by noting when the Line defcribed by the Star is a Tangent to the Moon's Limb, or to the Horizon-, and to make the Instrument useful, the Telescope ought to take in a large Angle •, and to make the Obfervation true, the Star must touch the Moon's Limb, not on the outfide of the Limb, but on the infide : thus far Sir Ifaac 'Newton.

TJbe Defcription and Use of Mr Had ley V Instrument for taking the Latitude, or other

Altitudes at Sea.

The Instrument ABC (Fig. 6.) is an Octant having it's Arch or Limb C B but 45 De- Fig. 6, grees diagonally divided into 90 equal Parts, and these again fubdivided into as many equal Parts as poffible with diftinction ; each of the first mentioned equal Parts being De- grees, and the fubdivifions Parts of a Degree, as ferve to take any Altitude from the Hori- zon to the Zenith. The Octant is generally made of Mahogany Wood, and fometimes of Ebony, or Brass, the Radius of the Instrument being generally 20 Inches •, the Thicknefs is half an Inch ; the graduated Arch is ufually of Box- Wood, and fometimes Brass about the Thicknefs of a Half-penny. About the Centre of the Instrument there is an Index D, freely but ftiffly moving on a Pin, fhewing the Degrees upon the Arch. Upon this Index* near the Centre, is fixed a plane Speculum E, or piece of Looking-Glass Quick-filvered on one side, having it's middle E directly over the Centre of the Octant, which Speculum is perpendicular to the Plane of the Index, and whose Plane coincides with the fiducial Line E D drawn along the middle of the Index : though it may make some Angle with that Line in other Instruments of this kind. This Speculum is about 2 Inches by 2 '. This Glass is to receive the first Image of the Sun, or other Object to be observed by, and to reflect it to another lefler plane Speculum, or Looking-Glass F, % of an Inch square, fixed perpendicularly on a piece of Wood faftened to the Side A B, or Limb of the Octant, and having it's Surface so fituated, that when the Index is brought to mark the Beginning of the Divisions on the Limb (that is o°), it may be exactly parallel to the Surface of the other Speculum. That part of this Speculum is Quick-filvered which is next to the Plane of the Instrument, and so fet in it's Brass Work, that it may at any time be fee perpendi- cular to the Plane of the Instrument, if by any accident it fhould be removed from that pofture. When it is in the Perpendicular, it can also be turned round, keeping ftill perpendi- cular, so as at pleafure to bring it to it's true pofition with regard to the Glass fixed on the Index. This Glass ferves for forward Obfervations with the Instrument, and from it the Eye receives the Image of the Object by a second Reflection. There is another such Specu- lum G placed on the side of the Octant, but farther from the Centre, and with the fame Sort of Brass Work to fet it perpendicular, and to it's true Pofition.

There are two dark or fmoaked GlafTes H, fet in Frames of Brass fixed to a Pin, the one lighter, and the other darker, so as to be turned at pleafure either of them, or both together, as the Sun's brightnefs may require between the Speculum on the Index, and either of the two on the side of the Instrument, according as the fore or back Obfervation is used. For which reason there are two Holes on the side of the Instrument, that they ac- cordingly may be fhifted from the one to the other. I being the Hole for them in the back Obfervation. Each of the Obfervations has a fight Vane K, of Box- Wood, about 2 f Inches from the Centre. In that for the fore Obfervation are made two Holes to direct the placing the Eye, the one being exactly as high above the Plane of the Instrument as is the middle of the unquickfilvered Part of the leffer Glass j the other the Height of the Edge of the Quick- filver itfelf, or a little lower. That for the back Obfervation requires but one Hole, which is placed exactly at the Height of the middle of the clear Part of that Glass. The Altitude of the Sun or Star above the Horizon, taken by this Instrument, is deter- mined by the Inclination of the Planes of the two GlafTes (F and E for the fore Obfervation, and F and G for the back Obfervation) to each other, when the Sun or Star appears in the Horizon. In the fore Obfervation, the double of this Angle of Obfervation is the Alti- tude fought, and is marked by the Index, on the Arch of the Instrument divided into half Degrees. But in the back Obfervation, twice the Difference of this Inclination from a right Angle gives the fame Altitude, and is marked by the Index in the fame manner, the fame Scale of Degrees ftrving for both ; so that when the Index ftands at the beginning of the Scale, the Surface of the leffer Glass F used for the fore Obfervation, is parallel to the Surface of that one the Index, viz. E, but the Surface of the other Glass G perpendicu-

70 Of modern Instruments use a I at Sea ', &c.

The Use of this refetfing Oft ant as thus defcribed, in taking the Altitude of the Sun,

or a Star at Sea.

I. To adjuft the Glass for a fore Obfervation.

Set the Index D exactly to the Beginning of the Scale C, that is, clofe up to the Button on the Side of the Limb AC. Then holding the Instrument with your Left-hand, by the Index and Limb together, near the Arch B C, or over the Button, as upright as you can with the Arch downwards, and keeping the Index all the while touching the Button, look thro' the lower Hole in the Sight-Vane, that is, that next to the Instrument, and fee the Edge of the Sea (taken for the Horizon), through the Part of the Glass which does not reflect, and mark whether the Line of the Sea's Edge, that is, the Horizon thus feen by direct vifion coincides, or is the fame, with the fame Edge feen by the Reflection of the Quick-filvered part of that Glass. If not, turn that Glass by the Handle on the back side of the Instrument, 'till they do thus join or coincide. This being done,

II. To take an Altitude by a fore Obfervation.

Set the Index to the Altitude as near as you can judge, if it be within 10 or 15 Degrees the Matter is not much. Hold the Instrument upright, as near as poflible, with it's Plane in a vertical Circle palling through the Zenith and Sun, or other Object, with the Arch downwards. And supposing the Object to be the Sun, placing your Eye at the upper Hole of the Sight- Vane K. Look at the Edge of the Sea (taken for the Horizon), juft under the Sun by direct view, through the outer Part of the Speculum on the Limb not Quick- filvered over. Then by moving the Index, the Image of the Sun must be brought to ap- pear as if it were really joined to the Edge of the Sea, that is, as if it were brought down to the Horizon, touching it where the vertical Circle pafling through the Zenith and Centre of the Sun cuts the Horizon, and the Degrees and Minutes of the Arch marked by the Index will denote the Sun's Altitude.

Note, If the Reflection be too bright for the Eye, turn up one or both the coloured GlafTes H, according as you fee occafion. But if the Image be too faint to appear on this Part of the Glass, or it be any other Object than the Sun, or a bright Moon, then look through the lower Hole of the Vane, and fee it on the Quick-filvered part of the Specu- lum, and then you must judge when the Line of the Horizon, feen directly through the unquick-filvered part if produced, would pass through it.

Note also the Line of the Direction of the Sight, or the Line in which you fee the Image when directly looking at it, must be kept as near as poflible parallel to the Plane of the Instrument, in order to be very exact. Wherefore when you look through the upper Hole, take the Obfervation about the middle of the unquick-filvered Part of the Glass, and not too near the Edge of the Quick- filver, nor the outer Edge of the Glass ; but, if you use the under Hole, bring the Image near the Edge of the Quick-filver, lean the In- ftrument a little awry to right and left by turns, by which the Image will feem to fwing to and fro, and move the Index 'till you have brought the Image juft to brufh the Ho- rizon in the loweft Part of it's fwing.

Note, For common use it will be well enough to obferve by the Sun's Centre. But this way is not so exact, as to do it by the Sun's upper or under Edge -, if the under Edge be used, in the fore Obfervation, you must add 16 Minutes to those pointed by the Index; if the upper, fubftract 16 Minutes.

To adjuft the Glasses for the back Obfervation.

Set the Index off so much before the beginning of the Scale of Degrees as is the double of the Dip of the Horizon, or Edge of the Sea (viz. 8 Minutes, for 44 Feet above the Surface of the Sea •, y / for 34 Feet ; 6' for 25 ; cj for 17 Feet ; 4/ for 1 1 Feet ; 3' for 6 Feet ; and i / for 3 Feet). Look through the Hole of that Sight- Vane holding the Inftru- ment upright, and fee that the Edge of the Sea behind you, appearing by reflection either from the clear Part of that Glass, if it be difcernable there, or else from the Quick-filver on both sides ; join all along with that before you, feen through the fame clear Part of the Glass. If those two Edges crofs one another, the Instrument is not held upright, and the Adjuftment will not be so certain.

Note, The Edge of the Sea feen by reflection will be inverted ; the Water appearing above, and the Sky below.

To take an Altitude by a back Obfervation.

Having fet the Index to the Altitude as near as you can guefs, look through the Hole in the Sight-Vane, and the middle of the clear Part of that Glass between the Quick-filvered Parts on both Edges, juft over your own Shadow, and move the Index 'till you bring the Ima»e of the Sun, &c. exactly to the Horizon ; and the Degrees and Minutes marked on the graduated Arch will be the Altitude fought.

Note, To know whether you hold the Instrument upright, carry it to Right and Left by turns, keeping your Arms fteady, and you will fee the Image flide along the Edge of the Sea, if it be held upright •, otherwise it will run in a Line cutting it. In this Obltrvation, if you use the apparent under Edge of the Sun, fubftract 1 6 Minutes, otherwise add 16 Minutes, contrary to what is to be done in the fore Obfervation.

Note, The Dip of the Horizon fet down above, in the back Obfervation, is to be added to the Degrees of Altitude marked upon the Arch, and not fubftracted as in the fore Obfervation.

To obferve the Altitude of a Star, by the fore Obfervation.

Look directly up at it first with the Index (landing clofe to the Button, then move the Jndex forwards, and caufe the Star to flide down to the Horizon, that you may not mi- ftake it for another ; and the Degrees marked by the Index will be that Star's Altitude ; and thus is the Altitude of a Star taken by the fore Obfervation. But when the Horizon is bright, and the Star faint, it may be bell to take the Altitude by a back Obfervation •, in which cafe you are to look directly up at the Star, and bring the Horizon, or Edge of the Sea, behind you to touch the Star by reflection. As the Stars are used in the Night, Moon- light Nights are beft for the Obfervation, either fore or back.

Note, The back Obfervation is not so eafy as the fore one, and is use fill in taking small Altitudes of the Sun when it's Light may be troublefome to the Eye in the fore Obferva- tion. It is also useful in verifying the Truth of an Altitude of the fame Object, taken at the fame time, or nearly fo, by a fore Obfervation with the fame Instrument. That the back and fore Obfervation may agree accurately, in a lofty Ship efpecially, the Index must not ftand exactly at the beginning of the Scale in the Adjuftment for the fore Obfervation, but must be fet off so much before the beginning of the Scale, as has been already said, as is the double of the Angle of the Dip or the vifible Horizon, or Edge of the Sea, below the true Horizon, for which reason there is a few Minutes graduated before the beginning of the Arch.

The chief Advantage of this Instrument, fays Mr Hadley, confifts in this ; that whereas by taking an Altitude by other Instruments now in ufe, a certain exact Pofture of them is required. But the Motion of the Ship continually difturbs the Obferver, by putting them out of that true Pofture, even in moderate Weather, and in hollow Seas to that degree, that Obfervations taken by them cannot oftentimes be accurate enough to be depended up- on. But with this Instrument, though the Ship rolls ever so much, provided the Inftru- ment be kept in, or near, an upright Pofture, though it be leaned forewards or backwards therein, yet the Image of any Object, when once brought by Aiding the Index to appear on the Edge of the Sea, will there remain abfolutely immovable, as long as the Index con- tinues in the fame Place, without being ftirred, and the Obferver has the fame Advantage of making the Obfervation as if he took it in fmooth Water, and the Instrument was held flill without Motion. Thus far Mr Hadley.

Hence it is evident from what has been said, that whatever Improvement as to the Use and Exactnefs of these Inftrum«nts others may have found out, whether by the Matter, Fi- gure, Weight, alteration of some Parts, He. Sir Ifaac Newton most certainly must have the Honour of the Invention. All the Praife due to others, can only confift in the Degree of Facility of the Use, and the Exactnefs, whereby the Instrument, as contrived by them, exceeds that defcribed by Sir Ifaac Newton •, and, indeed, whatever this be, Sir Ifaac New- ton at least must have been the original Caufe •, for had he not fhewn this his Invention to Dr Halley, it is probable that Nobody else might have thought of such a Contrivance, and confequently there would have been no such Instrument, and accordingly no Improvement upon it. Or supposing fomebody else to have thought of such a Contrivance by himfelf, as well as Sir Ifaac Newton -, yet as Sir Ifaac appears to have been the first Inventor, this other Inventor is allowed to have no fhare of the Honour of the Invention, and much less ftiould those who only alter or improve some particular Part or Parts of the original In- vention ; perhaps (more to difguife and distinguish it from that of others, thereby the better to appropriate the whole to themfelves) than render the original Invention more per- fect and better fuiting the Design of the original Thing itfelf. He who alters the Situation of a Door, Window, Chimney, or other lefler Part in a commodious well defigned Build- ing, has but a small Title to any of the Reputation acquired by the Architect of that Build- ing. Columbus, who first difcovered the JVefl-Indies, is juftly allowed by all to have the Honour of the Difcovery, although Americus Vefputius, who failed there after him, had the Reputation to have that Country called by his Name. So Mr Hadley's and Mr Smith's Quadrants, though they do not differ from that of Sir Ifaac Newton as to the Main of the Invention, yet these Instruments are called by their Names.

The Inconveniences in the Use of this Instrument feem to be, 1 ft, For him who wants to find the Altitude of the Sun by that Instrument, first to guefs at that Altitude without such Instrument, at least within 10 or 15 Degrees, which is not eafy to do -by one who is not much used to the taking of Altitudes. Secondly, The too great Obfcurity of the Objects when feen by a double Reflection, efpecially in hazy Weather. Thirdly, The uncertainrv of feeing the true Horizon in hazy Weather or at Nights. Fourthly, The uncertainty of bringing a Star to the true Horizon in the Night, even when the Moon fhines. The Hori- zon being then not eafily to be guefifed at, there being Vapours oftentimes on the Surface of the Sea causing the Refraction to be ibmetimes more and fometimes less according to the Weather, Time of the Year, &c. so unconftantly various, that no Rule, or Tables, "by any one hitherto given for determining it's Quantity, can be entirely depended upon. f!y which means the true Horizon, as to Situation, will fometimes appear higher or lower through an Inflrument looking at it, that is, at the Line feperating the apparent Surface of the Sea from the Sky. And that according as the Medium that he looks at it through, is more or less denfe, or the Mercury in the Barometer is higher or lower. For all which Reasons I am apt to think that this Newtonian Quadrant or Otlant, is fubject to uncertainty with re- gard to the Practice, as well as all the others that have been hitherto invented. But how far this Inflrument exceeds any of them, it is not in my Power to fay. Experience, and that a good deal, fufficient Judgment, and proper Caution, are the beft Proofs. This may have the Advantage of some of them in some Particulars, and they of this in others. This I am certain, when the Sun is bright and the vifible Horizon clear, the Altitude, all things else alike, will be beft taken by this Inflrument. But in the Night when the Moon does not mine, the meridian Altitude of a noted Star, as the Pole Star, which is chiefly wanted in or- der to find the Latitude, cannot be taken so exactly by this Inflrument, because the Horizon cannot be diflinctly feen, as it can by a Brass Aftrolabe, or Ring, properly poifed by a dex- terous Perfon, who has been used to all the various Motions of a Ship, and where the fenfible Horizon has nothing to do with the Operation. Befidcs, the Divisions of the De- grees upon this Aftrolabe, are twice as big as those upon one of these Octants of the fame Radius, which muff, certainly be some advantage. Moreover, as there are but few who ufe this Octant who know the Reason why it gives the Altitude that they are finding by it, but, on the contrary, every body who underftands the first Rudiments of Aftronomy and Geography, immediately fees the Reason of his Operation by the Aftrolabe ; the latter has fome advantage over the former upon this account, viz. with refpect to flmplicity. And this flmplicity may be a Means to bring this Aftrolabe more in use than it is at prelcnt, and I think fhould ftir up some impartial, ingenious Perfons to compare the Uses of the two Instruments, which are beft, and if the Aftrolabe be deficient herein, to render it more per- fect by some additional Contrivances, which I think it is capable of. Ttlefcopick Sights to the Index might be of ufe; and if the Wind fhould be so high as to ditturbe the true poifing of the Inflrument, this may also be remedied In fhort, of all the Instruments for taking the Altitudes at Sea, this mod ingenious Octant, as to contrivance, and that molt Ample one the Aftrolabe, I take to be the beft of any others.

The Foundation of the Contrivance of the Newtonian Offant, is chiefly built upon the following Caloptrical Principles". 1. The Angle of Reflection is equal to the Angle of Inci- dence. 2. The Place of the Image of an Object, feen by the Reflection of a plane Specu- lum, will be behind the Speculum in a Perpendicular let fall from that Object, and as far behind the Speculum as that Object is before the Speculum (the Objects are supposed to be Points for the eafe of Imagination). 3dly, The Image of an Object feen by the fucceflive Reflections of one or more plane Speculums, will be feen in the second reflected Ray, by an Eye any where placed in that Ray, provided the Speculums themfelves do not hinder the Sight. Hence, Fig. 7 . If two plane Speculums b B, c C (Fig. 7.) inclined to one another under the Angle H R I,

be at right Angles to some third Plane MAN, as suppose that of the Horizon M A N. And if a Ray of Light A F emitted from any Point A of an Object, be fuccefllvely re- flected by those two plane Speculums (that is, by the Speculum b B from F to G, and by the Speculum c C from G through L, the Angle A F B being equal to ^FG, and the Angle C G F equal to the Angle c G L) •, the first Image of A being at M, as far behind the Continuation of the common Section R H of the Speculum b B and the Horizon, as A is before it ; and the second Image N made by the Reflection of the second Speculum c C, as far beyond the Continuation R I of the common Section of the Plane of the second Spe- culum c C, as the Image M is on this Side of it. I fay, the three Points R, M, N, will be at the fame Distance from the common Section R of the Planes of the two Speculums with the horizontal Plane. And the Angle A R N contained under the two right Lines A R, N R, drawn from the Object A, and it's second Image N, to the said common Section R, will be the double of the Angle H R I of the Inclination of the Planes of the two Spe- culums b B, rC, viz. their common Sections with the Plane of the Florizon.

For draw R A, join AM, M N, cutting R H, R I, in the Points P and S. Also let N G, A F, continued out, meet in L ; then flnce all Reflection is made in the fame Plane, with the incident Rays, the Points R, L, M, A, N, F, G, will be all in the fame Plane, viz. that of the Florizon, now because PM-P A, and P F — P F, ami the A ngle A F 1 i = RFG=MFH; the Triangles F M P, F A P will be equal to one another ; where- fore F M = F A, and the Angle M F A will be twice the Angle A F H — M F H, and fo

the Arch A M — 2 Arch A II, or = 2 Arch M H. In like manner, since the Angle M G C = Angle L G R = N G I, and M S -- S N, and G S = G S, therefore will the Tri- angles G M S, G N S be equal ; wherefore G M = G N, and the Angle M G N = 2 Angle N G I ~ I G M, therefore the Arch MN= 2 IM = 2lN. Hence the Triangles R M F* R AF will be equal, and lo R M = R A ; alio the Triangles R M G, R N G will be equal to one another, wherefore R M = R A =-- R N = R I.

Again, make the Angle I R Q = I R H, oT the Arch I G, I Qj= I H, then will Q^H = 2 I Q^ But QH = A N, for since N Qj= M H = A H. If A Q^ be added to N Q^, and A H be added to N Q , there will be had A N = QJH •, wherefore A N = 2 H I, or the Angle A R N = 2 H R I.

Also the Angle NLA will be equal to the Angle N R A, and so the four Points A, N, R, L, will be all in one and the fame Circle. For since the Angles ALN j- G F L — F G N, and so A L N = F G N — G F L. But F G N = 2 F G I, and G F L = 2 G F R, and confequently their Difference is ~ 2 F R G = 2 H R I, wherefore the Points A, N, R, L will be in the Circumference of the fame Circle, the Angle NLA being equal to the An- gle N R A. Hence, if the Eye be placed at L, in the second reflected Ray NGL, the Image N of the Point A of a vifible Object will appear to be at N, supposing the Part c G of the Speculum c C to be away, viz. not hindering the Sight, or contrariwife, if N be a vifible Point of an Object, the Eye at L will fee it's Image at A ; if the Part b F of the first Speculum be away, so as not to hinder the direct Progrefs of the Rays AFL coming from A to L. Since the Radius AR of the Horizon MAN (or, indeed, of any great Circle in the Heavens), is infinite, the Points R, L, G, will coincide, or fall into one an- other ; and in this Cafe, the Arch A N of the Horizon contained between the vifible Point A, and it's second Image N, will be exactly equal to one half the Arch H I of the Angle of the Inclination of the two Speculums b B, c C, to one another. Hence, if M A N be the Meridian, and A be a Point where that Meridian cuts the Florizon, and if N be fup- pofed to be the Sun, in the Meridian, elevated above the Horizon by the angular Distance, or Arch A K N. If these two Speculums b B, c C be so inclined to one another, that the Image of the Sun N, appears to the Eye at R or L, by the Reflection of the Speculums to be caff upon the Point A of the Horizon. Twice the Angle of the Inclination of the Spe- culums will be equal to the Sun's Meridian Altitude AN ; and this is the main Foundation of the whole Contrivance of all these new Sorts of reflecting Sea Octants for the fore Obferva- tion. See a more particular Account of this Theory by Mr Hadley himfelf, in the Pbilcfo- phical TranfaHions, Numb. 420, 425 ; as also in Dr Smith's Opticks.

And the Reason of the Operation for a back Obfervation is derived from this Theorem^ viz. twice the Difference of this Angle of Inclination of the Planes of the two Speculums, from a right Angle, is the Angle A R N of Altitude.

Mr Hadley tells us, that upon Trial of one of these Instruments, three Obfervations made at Sea of the Distance between two Stars with a Brass Octant of this Kind, differed from Mr Flamjiead's at Land, only about a Minute ; and a dozen Obfervations of the Sun's Alti- tudes taken by one of these wooden Instruments, differed but about half a Minute at a Me- dium from one another, when the Ship lay at Anchor ; and when the Ship was under Sail, another dozen differed at a Medium about a Minute. He tells us moreover, the Obferva- tions made of this Instrument at Sea, were by the Help of some curious Watches, with Second Hands, and from the Time by the Watch corrected, noted at the Inftant of each Obfervation, the true apparent Altitude of the Sun was computed, the Refraction, and Ob- ferver's Elevation being allowed for, and the Difference between the Altitude thus found by Computation, and what was given by the Instrument at the fame Time, gives the Error of the Altitude found by the Instrument. And he afterwards fays, that a Meridian Altitude may be taken at Sea to a Minute, by this Instrument, which I much doubt •, for as a Mi- nute of the Arch of the wooden Octant of 22 Inches Radius, is but about 5 Parts of 200 of an Inch, which is but a very small Interval, and as these small Divisions by Workmen are oftentimes not made equal between themfelves, I think it is too much to fay, an Angle can be taken to one Minute, much less to half a Minute by such an Instrument, even supposing there were no other material Caufes of Error in the Way. If I fhould affert that an Alti- tude could not be taken truly at Sea to 2 Minutes by the Instrument, I do not know whe- ther I might not be right. For Mr Hadley* s Computation of the Altitude is fubject to fome Error, because, as he himfelf owns, an Error of seven Seconds in the Time, will caufe an Error of one Minute in the Altitude, also an Error of the Sun's Declination at the Time of Obfervation, as also one in the Latitude of the Place, for both these must be given, to- gether with the exact Time from Noon. In order to compute the Altitude from Spherical Trigonometry by the Tables of Sines and Tangents, that is, to find one Side of a Spheri- cal Triangle when the Angle opposite to it (viz. the Time, and the other two Sides, in- cluding that Angle, the one being the Complement of the Latitude, and the other the Com- plement of the Sun's Declination), are all three given. I fay, an Error in either of these, will caufe one in the Altitude thus found by Trigonometrical Calculation, for which reason I am not certain, whether the Goodnefs of one of these Octants might not be better tried by a number of Perfons in the fame Ship, near the Shore, each with one of these Inftraments taking the Sun's Altitude at the fame Time, and other Perfons on the Slime, near at Hand at the fame Time, by ibme Signal, taking that fame Altitude with some proper In- ftruments ; then by comparing the Sea Obfervations of that Altitude, with the Land ones taken at the fame Time, their agreement, or difference at a Medium, after all proper Allowances are made, will fhew the Exactnefs of the Octant in taking Altitudes of the Sun at Sea. And for greater Certainty of Exactnefs, that Altitude may be calculated too, by Spherical Trigonometry. By having given the Latitude, and Sun's Declination, as alio the Surfs Azimuth found at the Time of Obfervation, by a good Azimuth Compass, r ther than the Time from Noon, given by a Watclu an Error in the Azimuth causing less Error in the computed Altitude. Then if the Larfsl? .Altitude, Sea Altitude, and computed Alti- tude all agree, to a Trifle, we may be a flu red of the Certainty of the Altitude taken at Sea. But when the Land Altitude and computed one agree, and the Sea Altitude differs too much from them, there is an Error in the Sea Altitude taken.

CHAP. III.

The Defcription of another modern Quadrant of Mr Elton's for taking Altitudes without an Horizon^ either at Sea or Land*

Fig. S. rr~\ HIS Instrument (Fig. 8.) confifts of four principal Parts, viz. the Frame ABCD

J[ E F, the Index G H, a Label I K, and a Shield or Ray Plate dfg ; and these confift of several Parts : the Frame has two Parts, the one a gradt rtco Arch D E, of 30 Degrees, each Degree fubdivided into 6 equal Parts ; the other B C, a Chord of an Arch of 60 De- grees, divided into two equal Parts. At the Extremities, and in the Middle of which are three Holes, or Stops, a, b, c, for the Label. The Index G PI turns, about the Centre of the Frame, through the whole Extent of the Arch, and has three Parts, a Nonius Plate «, Eye- Vane v, and Glass Tube t, as a Spirit Level ; the Nonius Plate moves with the Index, and fubdivides each of the small Divisions into ten equal Parts or Minutes ; the Eye- Vane v, is to look through in a fore Obfervation, and the Glass Tube / is to fhew by the Bubble of Air when the Index is horizontal ; the Label I K moves about the Centre of the Frame, the whole Extent of the Chord B C of the Arch of 60 Degrees ; having three fixed Stations thereon at 30 Degrees, 60 Degrees, and 90 Degrees, and contains two principal Parts, viz. a Lens /, and a Stool 0, for a Lanthorn Qj the Lens is to form the Sun's Image upon the Shield dfg, the Lanthorn is neceffary in nocturnal Obfervations, the Shield is fixed in the Centre of the Frame, and has three Parts ; an Azimuth Tube z, an Axis x, and an hori- zontal Tube / ; or in backward Obfervations a ray Plate ; the Hole in the Shield is to re- ceive the Sun's Image, the Azimuth Tube is to direct the Plane of the Instrument perpen- dicular to the Florizon, the horizontal Tube is to fhew when the Label is level, the Axis is to cut the Objects in forward Obfervations.

The Use of the Instrument, for either a backward or forward Obfervation.

If the Altitude does not exceed 30 Degrees, the Label must be placed at the Station on the Radius or longeft Limb of the Quadrant. If the Altitude be between 30 and 60 De- grees, at the middle Station ; and if the Altitude exceeds 60 Degrees, at the uppermost Station.

To take the Sun's Altitude by a back Obfervation.

In doing this, the Sight- Vane, or horizontal Tube, on the Shield is not used. Hold the Quadrant with both Hands so as to keep it as fteady as poffible, with the back Arch turned towards the Sun. When the Bubble of the Azimuth Tube is brought under the Hole in the Shield, caufe the Sun's Image to fall on the Hole in the Shield, so that it may Rest in the Centre of the Sun's Image ; the Inftant the Azimuth Tube and the Sun's Image are thus re- gulated, fee if the Bubble in the horizontal Tube on the Index (which 'till then is difregard- cd) leaves the open End of the Tube, or ftops any where clear of the Ends of the Tube. If these happen at the fame Time, the Altitude is then truly taken. But if the Bubble had remained in the enclofed End of the Tube, when the Azimuth Bubble and Sun's Image were regulated, the Index must have been flid up ; and if it ftaid in the open End, moved down 'till the horizontal Bubble on the Index quits the open End of the Tube, or ftopt between the Ends, as was before observed ; and then is the Quadrant ftt. In continuing

Some Account of the Mural Quadrant \ &C. 275

the Obfcrvation for a Meridian Altitude, the Quadrant being fet, as the Sun rifes, the ho- rizontal Bubble on the Index will not quit the open End of the Tube, or flop between the Ends, but hang there, or leave it after the Azimuth Bubble and Sun's Image have been regulated, which will require the Index to be continually moved down in order to keep the Quadrant fet ; when the Sun is up, or on the Meridian, the Quadrant will remain fet for fome time ; and on the Sun's falling, the horizontal Bubble will have a reverfe Tendency, inclining or running wholly to the enclofed End of the Tube.

To take the Altitude of the Sun or Stars by a forward Obfervation.

In this Obfervation the Lens and Tube, on the Index are not used. Hold the Quadrant upright, and looking through the Eye-Vane direct the Axis, or upper End of the Shield, to the Sun or Star. If the Axis cuts the Sun or Star at the fame lnftant that the Bubble on the horizontal Tube on the Shield quits the open End, the Altitude is then truely taken, and the Quadrant ftt. .But if it fhould leave the open End of the Tube before the Axis, or upper Edge of the Shield, cuts the Sun or Star, then the Eye- Vane, or the Index, must be Aid down •, and if it remains at the open End, or quits it when the Axis is above, the Sun or Star moved up until the Quadrant is fet. In continuing the Obfervation for a me- ridian Altitude, as the Sun or Star rifes, the Bubble in the horizontal Tube will always quit the open End of the Tube before the Axis cuts the Horizon •, so that to keep the Quadrant lit, the Eye- Vane muff on every such alteration be conflantly moved down •, while the Sun or Star is upon the Meridian, the Quadrant will remain fet; and when the Sun or Star falls, the Bubble will act contrary to what it did in the rifing, .refling wholly in the open End of the Tube.

To take the Sun's Altitude by means of the Horizon.

Turn the back of the Arch towards the Sun, and caufe the Sun's Image to fall on the Hole in the Shield, at the fame Time looking through the Eye- Vane, to cut the Horizon with the Axis.

Note, In taking the Altitude of the Stars, a small Light mufl be fixed in the Lanthorn ; the less the better. It will be be ft in forward Obfervations of the Sun, to take the Altitude of the upper Limb, and then fubftract ; and when the Sun is very clear, take his Altitude by a backward Obfervation, the forward way being chiefly intended for nocturnal Obfer- vations, and when the Sun is too much obfeured to give any Shade or Image.

In the Philosophical Tranj actions, at Number 423, pag. 273, from whence the afore- mentioned Defcription and Use 0! this Quadrant is taken, you have an Account how near Altitudes of the Sun taken at Sea by this Infirument, in a Voyage to Maryland, agreed with the Altitudes of the Sun taken at the fame Time by Davis's Quadrant. Sometimes they differed only one Minute, fometimes cf or 6', fometimes 16', and once their greateft Dif- ference was 21 Minutes. In the fame Place, it is said, that Obfervations of the Altitudes of the fixed Scars taken by both the Instruments, and the Latitude found thereby, common- ly differed about 4/ or 5', and the greateft Difference once arofe to 13'. Moreover, the •Captain of the Vessel that went to Maryland declares, that he observed with his Quadrant of Mr Elton's both by the Sun and Stars, in all the various Sorts of Weather he met with in his Voyage to and from Maryland, without regarding the Horizon, with as great Ex- actnefs as with Davis's Quadrant when the Sun and Horizon were clear. Laftly, It is said that another Sea Captain computed the Latitude in Leghorn Road, and several of the Ports of Spain, from Obfervations by this Quadrant, exactly agreeing with the known Latitudes of those Places. He adds, that he made several Obfervations by the Infirument in his PafTage home in hard Gales and a great Sea, and when it was so hazy that the common Quadrant was of no use for want of the Horizon.

Hence we may briefly obferve upon this Infirument, that it is no better than Davis's Quadrant, at leafl these two Captains thought fo, or else they would not have used Davis's as the Standard of Exactnefs, whereby to compare the others in their Voyages. At most it can only exceed Davis's in hazy Weather, and Obfervations of the fixed Stars at Night, when the Horizon cannot be feen.

CHAP. IV.

Some Account of the great Mural Quadrant at the Royal Obfervatory

in Greenwich Park,

THIS Quadrant chiefly confifls of {freight Iron Bars, crofs-ways joined together (as Plate 2, appears in the Figure) flat-ways and edge-ways, the Breadth of each of which is 2 Fig ?o Inches and 9 Tenths, and the Thicknefs T 'o and 4 nearly -, all those that are edge- ways being behind die others. They are so placed to ftrengthen them the more, and are besides far- ther flrengthened by a great Number of fhort Iron Plates bent to a right Angle, and placed behind the Quadrant in the Angles made by the Bars, and riveted to them both. Behind at the Circumlerence of the Quadrant there is alio a Bar placed edge-ways, bent circular, and faftened all along the middle of the flat Arch or Limb of the Quadrant, by a furficient Number of little Iron Plates bent at right Angles.

The Arch or Limb of the Quadrant con fills of two (every ways) equal quadrantal Arches laid upon one another ; an Iron one behind, and a Brass one before ; the Breadth of each being 3 Inches and 4. Tenths ; and the common Part of their Breadths where they lie doubled one over the other and are riveted together, is 2 Inches and 2 Tenths •, the Brass Limb be- ing remoter from the Center, than the Iron one by 1 Inch and 2 Tenths. This Limb is re- duced to a true Plane, by first placing the flat of the Quadrant very firm upon a Level or Horizontal Plane, and erecting perpendicularly over it's Center an Iron Axis, to the Bottom of which Axis is fixed at right Angles, an Iron Arm, equal in Length to the Radius of the Quadrant, and to the other End of this Arm is fixed an Iron Scraper directly over the Brass Limb, and being firmly fupported by the Arm and it's Braces, was turned about the aforsaid Axis, 'till by fcraping the Brass, the Surface of it was reduced to a perfect Plane- the Edge of the Scraper being exactly perpendicular to the Axis of it's Motion.

Upon the Brass Limb, there are two Arches ftruck, one with a Radius of 96.85 Inches and the other with a Radius of 95.8 Inches, by a Beam-Compass, fecured from bending by fcveral Braces faftened to it; the inner Arch is divided into Degrees, and 12th Parts of a Degree •, and the outward Arch into 96 equal Parts, each of which are fubdivided into 16 equal Parts. Thefe Divisions were made by bifecting every one of the equal Arches of 30 Degrees of the Quadrant, whereby the fame became divided into 6 equal Parts, con- taining 15 Degrees apiece, and each of these 15 Degrees being triftcted by trials, Arches of 5 Degrees were obtained ; and the fifth Part of these was found by trials •, and the Sub- divifions of the Degrees into 12 Parts, or every 5 Minutes were made by Bifections and Trifections : the outward Quadrantal Arch was divided into 96 equal Parts by no other me- thod than that of Bifcction, 'till 60 Degrees of the Quadrant, or two thirds of it, became divided into 64, and the remaining third into 32 equal Parts, which make 96 in the whole ; and every one of these were also divided into 16 equal Parts by continual Bifections. There is no occafion to direct fkilful Workmen how they shall make these Divisions with the greater!: accuracy •, they know more ways than one how to do it of themfelves. Thefe two Sorts of Divisions are a check upon each other, being in effect two different Quadrants; and the Divisions in one being reduced into the Divisions of the other, by a Table made for that purpofe, they arc never found to differ above five or fix Seconds in any place of the Limb, and when they do the Preference ought to be given to the bifected Divisions, as be- ing determined by a fimpler Operation. One of the 96 equal Parts of the Quadrant is 4^. of a Degree, or 56 J Minutes, and one of the 16 equal Subdivifions of every one of those, will be 3 l-l Minutes.

To avoid the trouble of fubdividing the Quadrantal Arch into fmaller parts, the Tele- fcope belonging to it, and moving about it's Centre, carries a final! Brass Nonius Plate which Aides upon the Limb.

The 10th Figure reprefents a Degree A B of the upper Arch of the Quadrant divided in- to 12 equal Parts, contains five Minutes in each. And CD in the fame Figure is -'- Part of the Quadrant divided into 16 equal Parts, each being as already laid 3 T \ Minutes ; and E F the Nonius, or fubdividing Plate fixed to the Telescope and Hiding with it in the Space between the Arches A B, CD: the Degrees and Minutes, and also those 96 Parts of the Quadrant are numbered from the Left-hand to the Right, beginning from the Interferons of the vertical Radius, in order to measure the Distances of Objects from the Zenith. But the Parts upon the Nonius are numbered the contrary way, beginning from the Line 00, called the Index ; which is drawn perpendicular to the Sides of the Nonius at the End next the Right-hand, and the Line of Sight through the Telescope is lb adjufled by the Crois Hairs in it's Focus, as to be parallel to the Index 00 produced through the Centre of the Quadrant.

The Length of the upper Arch of the Nonius is equal to 1 1 of the 12 equal Parts that every Degree of the upper Quadrantal Arch is fubdivided into ; and this Arch of the No- nius is divided into 10 equal Parts, so that one of these Parts is .' 2 -, ; of a Degree of the Arch of the Quadrant, or 5 i Minutes. Confequently the Difference between one of those equal Parts of the Arch of the Quadrant, viz. $\ and one of these 10 equal Parts of the Nonius will be half a Minute, or 30".

The Length of the lower Arch of the Nonius is equal to iy of the 16 equal Parts that each of the 96 equal Parts of the opposite Quadrantal Arch is fubdivided into ; and this Arch of the Nonius is divided into 16 equal Parts, wherefore the Length of this Arch of the Nonius will be about 59 JL Minutes ; and the Arch of one of the Divisions of this No- nius will be about 3 44 Minutes.

This Quadrant is fixed (it's Centre, and one Side of it being even with the Top of the* Wall) to the Eastern Side of a Free-ftone Wall, built oa purpofe in the Plane of the

Meridian -, the whole Weight of the Quadrant is fuppoited by two strong Iron Pins fixed to the Wall, and projecting through two Holes in square Plates of Iron riveted to the Qua- drant at a and b ; the Pin at a, which bears the greateft Part of the Weight, is im move- ably fixed in the Wall j but the Pin at b is moveable up or down by a strong Screw, in or- der to bring one side of the Quadrant into an Horizontal,' and the oth-r to a vertical Pofition.

That the Motion of the Telescope about the Centre of the Quadrant may be free and cafy, and that this may be obtained by counterpoifing the Telescope, and eafing the Center of the Quadrant of as much of it's Weight as poffible, there is the following Contrivance; In Fig. 9. a b reprefents an Iron Axis laid acrofs the Top of the Wall, having two Brass Fig. 9, Plates fixed perpendicularly to the Ends of it, with Notches or Holes cut in them for this Axis to turn in, which points to the Centre of the Quadrant at fight Angles to it's Plane : to that End of this Axis next to the Quadrant, an Iron Arm c d is fixed, having two Brass Plates V e, d /, almost perpendicular to it •, to them are riveted two (lender Slips of Fir, whose other Ends meet at g, near the Eye-Glass, being held together in a Brass Cap of Socket. Through a small Plate fixed to one side of a Collar embracing this lower End of the Telescope, there passes a fcrew Pin at g, parallel to the Telescope ; which Pin being fcrew- ed into the Cap at the End of the Slips, holds' up the Telescope right against the centre Work •, the Slips are ftrengthened by 5 or 6 crofs Braces of the fame Wood, as is repre- fented in the Figure to the other End of the Axis a b another Arm h i is fixed parallel to the Telescope, and in a contrary Direction, carrying a Weight i to counterpoife the Weight of the Telescope, arid make it Rest in any Pofition j and for the greater eafe and freedom of it's Motion, two small Brass Rollers are fixed to each Side of it, at k and /, which are held tight to the Plane of the Limb by a Plate fpringing against it's back-side, which Plate has also a Roller at each End of it.

When the Telescope is pretty nearly directed to an Object whose Altitude is to be taken, a Plate mn which is carried by the Telescope along the Limb, arid lies crofs it, may be fixed to it by a Screw, then by twifting the Head of a long Screw /&gt;, which is parallel to the Limb, and which works through a female Screw, annexed to the Plate m ft, and whose Neck at p turns round in a Collar annexed to the Telescope ; a very gradual Motion is given to the Telescope for bringing the crofs Flairs exactly to cover the Object.

The Quadrant is fet into the Plane of the Meridian by Flold-fafts, so as that Radius or Side of it which terminates 90 Degrees, is exactly placed vertical, with a Plumb-Line of fine Silver Wire, so fufpended as to play exactly over the middle of the central Point 0, and also over the Stroke at 90 Degrees upon the Limb below •, this Pofition of the Quadrant being once found, another Plumb-Line was fufpended by the Side of the Quadrant, quite clear of the centre Work, so as to play exactly over the Middle of a fine Point made in the Limb, in order to examine afterwards, with more expedition, whether the Quadrant has kept it's Place.

In order to help to determine the Degrees, Minutes, and Parts of a Minute, of the Me- ridian Altitude of an Object by the Index upon the Limb, it may be observed, that in the Scheme of Fig. 10. the Nonius EF is so fituated that the upper End of the Index 00 is Fl S* XOi . not opposite to any one ftrokc of the adjoining Arch A B, reprefenting a Degree of the Limb divided into 12 equal Parts, or 5 Minutes, but to some unknown Point of a 12th Part of a D grec, intercepted between 50 and 55 Minutes •, and to find the Overplufs above 50, I obferve by looking back from the Index, that a Stroke of the Nonius, which lies be- tween the Numbers 3 and 4, is directly opposite to a Stroke upon the adjoining Arch, which fhews that 3 Minutes and a half is to be added to the 50 Minutes aforsaid.

But when it happens that no one Stroke upon the Limb is directly opposite to a Stroke upon the Nonius, then look for that fingle Part of the Limb which is so oppofed to a fingle Part upon the Nonius, as to be exceeded by it at both Ends, as is reprefented in the Parts G and FI. Then, if by Eftimation of the Eye, this part of the Nonius exceeds the Part of the Limb equally at each End, allow 15" more, than if they had coincided at their Ends next the Index : and according as the Excefs next the Index, is judged to be one third, one half, double, or treble of the other Excefs, allow 7 \'\ 10", 20 // , 22 \'\ fefpectively ; for since the Sum of the two Extreams is always the fame, viz. 30", the Number of Seconds to be added will always be to ^o'\ as the Excefs next the Index is to the Sum of the two

Again, since, as has been said, the lower Arch of the Nonius is divided into 16 equal Parts, and is equal in Length to 1 7 equal Parts upon the opposite Arch of the Quadrant CD; it will by confequence determine 16th Parts of any one of them. In this Scheme, the opposite Strokes of the Nonius and the lower Arch are supposed to coincide at the End of the 9th Part upon the Nonius, which fhews that the Index Cuts off 9 Sixteenths of the opposite Part of the Arch ; and so the Length of the Arch from the Beginning C of a 96th Part C D of the Quadrant is thus denoted 15,9, the lower Points being paft the ijtfi Stroke -, and because the Arch C D is |4, or 44. of a Degree, or 56 \ Minutes ;• and so ,V Part of the Arch C D is 3 Minutes and 30 44 Seconds. Therefore the Length of the said Arch will be 15 Times 3 Minutes, and 30 44 Seconds, together with -/V of 3 Minutes and 30 44- Seconds.

It is agreed amongft Astronomers, that a large Mural Meridian Quadrant, such as this i$ which we have been defcribing, is by far the most accurate, expeditious, and convenient In- ftrument of all others for the chief Purpofes of Aftronomy. Tor since the Meafure of Time by Pendulum-Clocks, and confequently the apparent Motion of the Heavens, is now brought to the utmost Perfection ; if by obferving the Time by one of these Clocks when any Ob- ject in the Heavens comes to the Plane of the Meridian, we shall have their right Afcen- fions ; and by having given the Latitude of the Place, we have also their Declinations.; and thence their Places in the Heavens. And so a Catalogue of the Places of the fixed' Stars may be made in less than a tenth Part of the Time than by the beft moveable Quadrant, or Sextant-, not to mention the faving great Labour in Trigonometrical Calculations.

Note, This fhort Defcription of this Quadrant, may be enough for Gentlemen. As to Workmen, they may have a full Defcription of it in the 7th Chapter of the 3d £ook of the Second Volume of Dr Smith's Opticks.

This Quadrant is certainly a most curious, elaborate, and fkilful Piece of Workmanfhip, not, perhaps, equalled by any ot the Kind that has ever yet been made : the Contrivance and Direction of the whole being that of the late Mr George Graham, Watch- Maker in Fleet-Street, one of the greateft Mafters of Mechanicks in the World ; who did himfelf actually perform the Divilions of the Arch, and all the nicer Parts of the Work. But, for all this, I think the Instrument is too complex, and redundant in Contrivance, both as to Strength and Exactnefs. I mean, a Quadrant of that Kind might have been made as Lift- ing, perfect, and fit for the Purpofes defigned by it, and having as much real Exactnefs (not apparent, which is often times the Cafe), with much less Art, Trouble, and Expence. Nor with all it's Exactnefs, do I think an Angle of Altitude can really be taken by it (or any other the most perfect Instrument of the fame, or a less Radius), to -Jth of a Minute, or io". However, some People may deceive themfelves, and imagine the contrary : for since this Radius is not quit 8 Feet, one Minute of the Arch of the Quadrant will be but about 28 equal Parts of 1000 that one Inch is divided into •, and 10 Seconds will be but about ^4 T Parts of an Inch, which is such a fhort Length, as not to be distinguishable by the naked Eye. Certainly not by mine, and much less can any leffer Number of Parts be defined, even by the Affiftance of Diagonals, and Nonius's of what Kind so ever.

I have oftentimes thought that Angles of the Sun's Altitude may be taken to greater Exactnefs by more natural, fimple, and less expenfive Contrivances, than by any of these, and such like, very artificial Quadrants. Chiefly by means of a perpendicular Gnomon, many Feet high, or the Top of an high Building or Mountain, and the Shadow of the Extremity thereof caft from the Sun upon an horizontal Plane : for by having given the Heighth of that Gnomon, and the Length of it's Shadow upon the horizontal Plane at any Period of Time, the Angle of the Sun's Altitude at that Time may be found to Seconds, by Trigonometrical Calculation •, or a long Line may be horizontally extended from the Foot of that Gnomon upon the horizontal Plane, being first divided into a Line of Tangents by means of some of the Tables of Tangents to be found in Books, denoting every ten Seconds (as in Benjamin Urfwus\ Trigonometry), the Length of the Gnomon being the Radius, and the Parts of that Line which the Extremity of the Shadow of the Gnomon falls upon, will be the Degrees and Minutes, &c. of the Altitude. But when the Altitude is but small, viz. under 30 Degrees, or less, and so the Length of the horizontal Shadow is too great, another perpendicular Gnomon, or some other high Object that will caft a Shadow of equal Altitude with the other, and distant from it as much, or more, than by it's Height, j and from the Top of this last Gnomon there must be extended the fame Tangent-Line- String which was before Horizontal, as a Plumb-Line ; then that part of the Tangent- Line, upon which the Shadow of the Extremity of the other Gnomon falls, will give the Degrees, &c. of the Sun's Altitude.

If the Penumbra be an Objection to the Accuracy of this Method, a Telescope with Crofs-Hairs, Wires, or Silken-threads in the Focus, may be used, or some other Contri- vance, like a Camera Obfcura, to caft the Sun's Image upon the Tangent-Line : it is true, these are but rude and imperfect Hints. But this I am certain, that fomething may be done in this way, that will exceed any of the diminutive Quadrants, or other complicated, and expenfive Instruments that have hitherto been made, in measuring Angles to great Ex- actnefs. The Ancients used Gnomons, and so did some of the Moderns in the last Century, as is related in Ricciolus's Afironomia Reformata, &f Geographia Reformat a. He fays, That Ulugh Beigh, a King of Pathia and India, a Kinfman of 'Tamerlane the Great, used a Gno- mon about 180 Feet in Heighth, about the Year 1437. Ignatius Dante errected one in the Church of St Petronius at Bononia, 6y Feet high, in the Year 1576. In the Year 1655, the Celebrated Caffwi had another in the fame Place 20 Feet high. Father Heinrich, the je- fuit, had one of 35 Feet high erected in the Year 1705, at Utrecht. There have been others who have used Gnomons for taking Altitudes, of no great Moment to mention here.

Note, In the Philosophical TrnnfaBions, Numb. 483, there is a new Method of making a Mural Quadrant by one Mr Gerfien ; being a Mural Arch furnifhed with a Micrometer, free from some of the Inconveniences he would have to happen to those commonly fixed to a Wall ; but this Contrivance appears to me, to be too artificial and over nice : rather tend- ln&lt;7 to rectify and avoid imaginary Defects, than really fupply any real and confiderable Faultsj if any suchj in the Mural Quadrants already conftructed.

CHAP. V.

Of Perfpective G/aJJes y and Rej rafting Telescopes.

I. r~r\ H E lead Kind of perspective GlafTes, are about 4, 5, or 6 Inches long, having only J_ two Lenses within the Tube ; the Object Lens or Glass, being a double Convex, or Piano-Convex, being a Segment of a greater Sphere : and the Eye-Glass, a double Con- cave, being the Segment of a leffer Sphere, placed before the Focus of the Object Lens, by the Distance of the virtual Focus of the concave one.

The Objects appear through these Perfpective G'afTes diftinct, erect, and magnified in Diameter, in the Ratio of the focal Distance of the Object-Glass, to the focal Distance of the Eye-Glass : and for purblind Perfons to fee the Object diftinctly, the Eye-Glass must be brought nearer to the Object-Glass. There are few of these Perfpective GlafTes now made that exceed i3 Inches long, because you fee through them a part of the Object so much the lefTer, as it's Diameter is the more magnified. Formerly, indeed, there were Telescopes made with only a double convex Object-Glass, and a concave Eye-Glass, from 18 Inches long, to about 3 Feet -, which was the Length of Galileo's beft Telescope, so famous for the great Difcoveries he made with it. Hevelius fays, a good Telescope of this fort may be had when the double convex Object-Glass is 4 Danzick Feet in Diameter, and the double concave Eye-Glass in Diameter is 4 4 Inches. So likewise will it be, when the former is about 5, 8, 10, or 12 Feet, and the latter about 5 ~ Inches. But, as I said before, the Field which these Telescopes take in at one View, is too narrow when they exceed 3 or 4 Feet in Length ; they have long since been difused, excepting the Perspectives of 4 or 5 Inches in Length ; where Mr Huygens recommends the Ratio of the Semi-diameter of the Object-Glass, to that of the Eye-Glass, to be quadruple, or not more than double.

II. There are Perspectives from 18 Inches, to 4 or 5 Feet in Length, chiefly for viewing pl a te 2* Objects at Sea or Land, confifting of four convex Lenses or GlafTes, viz. an Object-Lens p . A, and three equal Eye-Lenses, C, D, E ; so placed in the common Axis A F, that B is the common Focus of the Object-Glass A, and the Eye-Glass C •, the Eye-Glass D is so far from C, as that the Distance C D is equal to twice the focal Distance C B of the Eye-Glass C ; and the Eye-Glass E is as much distant from D as C is from D j and the Eye must be placed beyond this last Eye-Glass E, by the Distance B C.

By these four Lenses, and fucli a Difpofition of them, very remote Objects will be di- ftinctly perceived, erect, and magnified in the Proportion of A B, the focal Distance of the Object- Lens, to B C the focal Distance of either of" the equal Eye-Lenses ; there is a small Annulus, or Ring, placed within the Tube of this Perfpective, either at the common Focus of the two Lenses D and E, or at B, the common Focus of the Object-Lens A, and the Eye- Lens C next to it ; by which contrivance is cut off" those irregular Rays which are not collected near enough to the two common Foci of the Lenses, and so are not by means of the fucceeding Lenses fent parallel to the Eye : also the Colours near the Margins of the Lenses are taken away, which otherwise cannot well be avoided.

This is reckoned one of the beft Compositions of the four Lenses of a Perfpective, and is thought to have been invented by Campani, a famous practical Optician, who lived at Rome many Years ago. There are also Telescopes to view the Celeftial Bodies through of this fort, having four GlafTes, and of greater Lengths. But a Telescope of two GlafTes on- ly, is fufficient for this purpofe.

There may be other Compositions of other Species of Lenses than all four double con- vex ones of equal Convexities, and three of them equal, that may do as well as these -, and the beft way to find them out is, by Trial : for Example, Suppose the Object-Glass a Piano-Convex, and the three Eye-Lenses equal Piano-Convex.

There have been also Perspectives with three Lenses, which invert the Object, and make it appear coloured. But these are not much efteemed.

There are also Perspectives and Telescopes, made with fix GlafTes, fhewing Objects very diftinct, enlightened and magnified. Such a Telescope may confift of five

equal

2 So Of PerfpeStive Glajfes, and RefraSiing^Telef copes,

equal Eyc-Lenses of equal Convexities, placed in rbe Axis of the Tube equally dittany from each other, by twice the focal Distance of either of them -, and the outermofi: Eye-Lens next to the double convex Object-Lens is distant from the Object-Lens by the Sum of the focal Distances of the Object-Lens, and one of the Eye-Lenles ; for by this Dvfpofition of the Lenses, the Rays that come from a very remote Object that fall upon the Object-Lens, being as it were parallel, will become again parallel after their Refraction by the" fifth Eye-Glass ; so they will again, after their Refraction by the third Eye-Lens, and: so will they once more after their Refraction by the first Eye-Lens : therefore since the Rays coming from the Obje&lt;5bfall parallel upon the Eye, the Object will be distinctly feerh J am not certain whether these fix Glass Telescopes are actually made with such Lenses, io disposed, as I have said •, for I have not feen their Structure ; but I know that according to the Theory, at least, such a Telescope may be so made, although, perhaps, there may be Inconveniences in this Method not to be discovered, unlefs by actual Practice : for in the Conftruction of Telescopes, though the Theory and Practice fhould always attend, and fup- port each other ; yet the Practice raoft conveniently takes the Lead, is the bnlt Guide, and' molt to be depended upon.

I'raber, in his Opticks fays, That Anthony Maria de Reita, a Roman Optician, made a Tube with five Convex-Lenses, which was reported to be an exceeding good one :. he like- wife mentions one Fontana, another Roman Artift of this Kind, who made a Tube with # Convex-GlafTes, clearly exhibiting the molt minute Object, at the Distance of a German Mile, which was bought by Cardinal Nepos, for 800 Crowns, and prefented by him to the Great Duke of Florence ; but, fays he, by reason of the Itrong and too violent Refraction, the Objects viewed through it appeared coloured, so that the Tube could not be much used without hurting the Eyes. He, moreover, fays, that he was told one Euftachio, a Neapolitan, made a Telescope having 19 Convex-Lenses, in Tubes altogether of 19 Cubits long, that would fliew the Pictures of Objects less coloured, by reason of the Interpofition of lome of the nicer Glances (neither magnifying, nor diminifning the Objects), which took away the Colourings of the Objects. Hence (lays he) we may fee what a great Myftery there is in the apt Composition of Lenses.

But how true this is, what are their particular Conftructions and Effects, I know not: for unlefs the Composition of the Glass, wherewith the Lenses are made, be exceeding fine and pure, free from Veins and Spots, and the Lenses be molt exquifitely figured, and po- lifhed, and besides, very thin, such a multiplicity of them must hinder the PafTage of fa many of the Rays that come from the Object to the Eye, as will caufe a very obfeure View of the Object.

It is as eafy in Theory to contrive a Difpofition of the Lenses for an 8, 10, or 12, &c. Glass-Telescope ; as for one of four Lenses. It is but taking as many Equal Eye-Lenses, except 1, as the Telescope is to have GlafTes, and placing them in the Axis of the Object- Lens (being a double Segment of a greater Sphere, which is in all Cafes supposed), at equal Distances from one another, each equal to twice the focal Distance of either : the last Eye- Lens next to the Object- Lens, being so far from the Object-Lens as is the Sum of the focal Distances of the Object and Eye-Lens.

III. The Aftronomical Telescope, viz. one through which the Heavenly Bodies are view- ed, confifts of but two double Convex-Lenses, the Object- Lens and the Eye-Lens ; these fhew the Object inverted, and magnified rn the Ratio of the focal Distance of the Object- Lens to that of the Eye-Lens ; the focal Distance of the Object-Lens being always much greater than that of the Eye-Lens ; these two Lenses being so placed in the common Axis as that their Distance is equal to the Sum of their focal Distances, or, which is the fame thing, that their Foci unite in one Point.

Telescopes have been made with other Species of Lenses, besides double convex ones, and Honoratus Fabri in his Synopfts Optica, fays, That Eujlachius Divini, a famous Roman Optick-Glass maker, made the Eye-Lens of his Telescopes to confift of two equal, narrow Plano-Convex-Lenses, touching one another's Convexities in the Axis, and so placed, that the Centre of that Piano-Convex-Lens next to the Object- Lens, was in the Focus of the Object-Lens-, by which means the Rays that came parallel from the Object, would fall pa- rallel upon the Eye : and, fays Fabri, some of the Advantages of this Telescope are, that the Colours of the Rain-Bow are excluded from it. The Angle of Sight is augmented. A greater Field is taken in at one View. The Object appears more lively and bright. Laftly, He would have Water included in the Vacuity between the Convexities of the two touching Piano-Convex Eye-Lenses. See a more particular Account of all this in the 46th Propofi- tion of Fabri's Opticks.

If two equal Lenses be joined together so as to touch, the Focus will be removed to a Distance double to that of one of them. Detbales takes Notice, that an Object Glass of 2 \ Feet focal Distance, fits an Eye-Glass of 1 i Inch. Eujlachius Divini joins an Object- Glass of 8 Feet, to an Eye-Glass of 4 Inches. Mr Huygens's Telescope, by which he first observed the true Phafes of Saturn, and one of his Satellites, confifted of an Object-Glass of 12 Feet focal Distance, and an Eye-Glass a little letter than 3 Inches. Afterwards he ob- ferved the fame Phenomena by a Telescope of 23 Feet,, with two Eye- GlafTes of 1 ; Inch

Diameter^

Of PerfpeSlive G/aJ/es, and ' RefraSiing Tele/copes. a8x

Diameter, touching one another, and producing the fame Effect as one only, viz. collect- ing the parallel Rays at about 3 Inches Distance. He likewise observed the fame with an Object-Glass of 30 Feet joined to an Eye-Glass of 3 A Inches •, and in his Dioptricks gives the following Table for the Construction of Telescopes, though here contracted.

TABLED TELESCOPES.

The focal Distance

Which Table he thus constructs ; he multiplies the Number of Feet in the focal Distance of the Object-Lens by 3000, and the square Root of the Product will give the Diameter of the Aperture in Inches and Decimal Parts : and the fame augmented by a tenth Part of it- felf, will be the focal Distance of the Eye-Lens ; and the apparent Breadths of the Objects are as the Diameters of the Apertures.

Eecaufe two Telescopes where the Ratio of the focal Distance of the Object-Lens of the one to that of it's Eye-Lens, is equal to the Ratio of the focal Distance of the Object-Lens of the other to that of it's Eye-Lens, do equally magnify the fame Object -, some may be apt to think, that the Trouble of figuring and polifhing the Object-GIafs of a long Te- lefcope may be fpared ; and that two such Telescopes are equally good : but in this they are miftaken, for the Object in the fhort Telescope will appear more confused, dark, and indiftinct than in the long one, all things else alike. What doth it avail to magnify an Object very much, if it cannot be feen dilVinctly j this is all we want, and long Telescopes will always do it belt.

Sir Ifaac Newton has proved in his Opticks, that the Perfection of Telescopes is impeded by the different Refrangibility of the Rays of Light, and not by the fpherical Figure of the

4 D Glass f

;$z Of PerfpecJive Glajfes, and Refracting TelescopeL

Glass, the Diameter of the little Circle or Focus, through which the Rays are fcattered by the unequal Refrangibility, being about the 55th Part of the Aperture of an Objtct-Glals, vvhofe Length was 12 Feet, and Aperture 4 Inches: so that the Error arifing from the fpherical Figure of the Glass, will be to the Error arifing from the different Refrangibility of the Rays, as 1 to 5449, which being so little in comparifon to the other, deferves noc to be confidered. He fays also, If the Theory of making Telescopes could at length be fully brought into Practice, yet there would be certain Bounds, beyond which Telescopes could not perform, by reason of the perpetual Tremor of the Air, through which we look, at the Sun or Stars ; even though long Telescopes may caufe Objects to appear larger and brighter than fhort ones can do, yet they cannot be so formed, as to take away that con- fulion of the Rays which arifes from the Tremors of the At,mofphere ; the only Remedy is, a mod ferene and quiet Air, such as may, perhaps, be found on the Tops of the high- eft Mountains, above the grolTer Clouds.

Since the first Invention of Telescopes, which is now almofl 150 Years ago, there have been many made of all Lengths and Goodneffes, in Italy, England, France, and Germany. Several ingenious Perfons having imployed their utmost Care and Pains to procure the he'll and cleaRest Glass pofiible, and used their greater! Skill and Dexterity in figuring and polifh- ing the fpherical Lenfcs. Sir Ifaac Newton and Mr Huygens took to this Bufinefs, but the former made no great Progrefs in it, rather for want of Inclination to continue the Purfuit, than Abilities to excel in it, if he had. But Mr Huygens went further, and made very good and long Telescopes of 23, 25, 30, and 123 Feet, which lafl has been in England many Years •, the late Doctors Derbam and Pound, made Obfervations with it at Wanjted in EJfex. Hevelius of Dantzick, had a Telescope of 140 Feet ; and Euftachius Divini, and Jofepb Cam- pani at Rome (long since deceafed), made Telescopes of various Lengths, viz. of 23, 24, 30, 33, 45, 50, 60, 70, Roman Palms ; the longeft of Campani's was 150 Roman Palms, and Francis biancbini, the Pope's domeftick Prelate, made Obfervations with it, in the Year 1725. The Telescopes made by these two Italians have been generally efteemed the beft in the World. CaJJini too had very good Telescopes, the longed being 136 Feet ; and the longeft that ever I heard off, is one of Artouquellius's (fee the Philosophical Tranfaftions, Numb. ()2&gt; 181.), of 220 Feet. There are very good Telescopes of Mr Petroni's made in Italy.

Mr Huygens wrote a Treatife about grinding GlafTes for Telescopes, wherein he supposes the GlafTes to be double Convex ones of equal Convexities, and the focal Distance to be given ; then the Radius of the fpherical Surface will be found, by taking it in proportion to that focal Distance, as 12 is to 11 ; the focal Distance being given, the Aperture of the Glass is also given by the Table above. When the Radius of the Convexity of the. Glass is very great, and so the said Convexity cannot be defcribed from a Centre, he finds Points through which that fpherical Convex is to pass, by laying off in Effect, upon a Tangent to the Pole of the Convex, some of the fir ft Figures of the several Sines of very small Arches (near one another), taken from the Tables of Sines, &c. and that by means of a Pair of Compasses, and an accurate Diagonal Scale of Inches, fubdivided into centefimal Parts ; and afterwards taking the fame Number of the first Sines of the several CGrrefpondent verfed Sines of those Arches, and laying them off refpectively upon Perpendiculars drawn from the Extremities of those Sines that are upon the Tangent-Line ; the Radius of the Tables being reduced by cutting off the Figures to the Inches expreffed in the given Radius of the Con- vexity. Mr Huygens's Concave-Tool, or Plate, or Difh, in which an Object-Glass is ground, was Copper, or caft Brass fattened upon a cylindrical Stone, with a. Composition of Pitch and Afhes -, and these Tools were applied to a turning Lathe, in order to turn the concave Surface exactly fpherical ; then he polifhes the Tool by an Incruftation of Pitch and Emery, and afterwards with blue Hones. In the Choice of Glass, he fays that is beft which looks some what yellow, red, or green when looked through against the Sky-Light, or laid upon a Sheet of white Paper : that which is perfectly white, though it tranfmits more Light, is generally fuller of Veins, and is often fubject to grow moift in the Air, which in Time deftroys it's polifh •, that such Glass was pretty good wherewith Drinking-Glasses was made. That he ordered Pieces of Glass to be made for his Use, of half an Inch, or three Quarters thick, in the fame Manner as they make Looking-Glasses, viz. by cutting off the Top and Bottom of the round Globe they blow up, and by flitting the Side of it, and then by flattening it upon the Hearth of the Furnace, and afterwards it was ground to an equal Thicknefs by a Stone-Cutter, by the Contrivance wherewith he polifhes Marble, or ground to an equal Thicknefs, and polifhed a little by a common Glass-Grinder. Then having found how free from Veins this Glass was, by looking very obliquely against a small Light in a Room otherwise dark, or by Reflexion with a Candle in that Room, and made choice of the beft for his Purpofe ; he rounds his Glass-Plate, by first defcribing upon the two Sur- faces two Circles directly over each other, with a Diamond pointed Compass, reprefenting the Circumference of the Object-Glass ■&gt; and also two more concentrick Arches with a Ra- dius about a tenth or twelfth Part of an Inch bigger. This done, he feperates the longer Part of the Glass from the outward Circle by a red-hot Iron, or by a strong broad Vice, opened exactly to the Thicknefs of the Glass. The remaining Inequalities may be taken off

kv * Grind-Scone ; then having warmed the Glass and -cemented a wooden Handle to iti and in a common deep Tool for Eye-Glasses, with white clear Sand and Water, he ground the Circumference of the Glass exactly true to the innermost Circle on each side of it. The Glass being made in figure of a Cylinder, it is ground upon the Tool with Emery (fome ufe common, clean, fine, white Sand), and made fit for polifhing -, then it is polifhed (with a Mixture of fine Tripoly and blue Vitriol wetted with Vinegar), by means of a polifhing Machine, which he defcribes. This is but an imperfect, fcanty Account of what Mr Huy- ?ens fays about the figuring and polifhing Glasses, yet it may be fufficient for a Hint to fatif- fy those who are defirous only to be acquainted how the thing is done in' general. See the Account at laro-e at the beginning of the Second Volume of Dr Smith's Opticks.

As fpherical Figures for Optick-Glasses will not collect all the Rays coming from one Point of an Object into another Point or Focus, Des Cartes, and some other of his Geome- trical-- Followers, about the middle of the last Century, recommended hyperbolick and lliptick Glasses, inftead of fpherical ones ; according to which, if the Giaffes were figured, thcfe would collect parallel Rays into one Point or Focus, and by that means Telescopes with such Glasses would be better than those with fpherical Glasses ; this is all fully explain- ed by Des Cartes in his Dioptricks, where he gives an Instrument for defcribing hyperbo- lick Glasses ; but the Difficulty of the figuring luch Glasses deterred fome, and the Objection of Sir Ifaac Newton (who has given a long Propofition in his Opticks, proving to them that fully underftand it, who I believe are but few, that it is not the fpherical Figure of the Giaffes, but the different Refrangibility of the Rays that hinders the Perfection of Tele- fcopes), difcouraged others from trying to make Optick-GIaffes of hyperbolick and elliptick Figures. There is certainly great Refpect to be paid to Sir Ifaac Ne-wt on in this Matter, who was, doubtlefs, the greater! Optician in the World •, but yet I do not take his Proof to be abfoluce Conviction, and that such hyperbolick Glasses would not be better than fpherical ones : nay, he himfelf in his Optical Lectures, Section I. fays, that Glasses cannot perform more than twice as well as Spherical ones, though they were formed into Figures, the belt that could be devifed for that end, and both figured and polifhed exactly alike. From whence one may certainly infer, Sir Ifaac thought that it was poffible for some Glasses not fpherical, to be as good again as fpherical ones •, therefore, if hyperbolick Glasses will double the prefent Perfection of Telescopes, it will be worth while to try to make them. I am fure it may be done by those who have a fufficient Skill in Geometry and Mechanicks.

The Tubes of perspective Glasses are of several Sorts, and made of various Matter. Some are made of ftiff Paper glued together, covered with Parchment or Shagreen ; fome confift of fingle Tubes, made of light dry Wood ; others of several leffer Tubes, Aiding one within another. The Glasses are fattened in the Tubes to wooden Rings, yet so as to be ea- fily taken out and put in again, by means of Screws various ways, in order to wipe the Dull: or Moifture oil" from them, with which they are more or less continually covered ; and this fliould always be done before the Perfpective is used. At the End of everyone of the inward Tubes is fitted a wooden Ring, to hinder the lateral fpurious Rays from coming to the Eye, which is found by Experience to be of more Use than could be thought ; these Rings are generally furnifhed with female Screws in those Places whereat the Glasses are fit- ed. The Perspectives of three or four Feet, which have but one wooden Tube, are molt handy, efpecially, if at each End, inftead of Covers that fcrew and unferew, they have thin Hiding Pieces of Brass for such.

Short Telescopes may have one fingle Tube, or several Sliding-Tubes •, but if the Tele- fcope is more than 20 Feet in Length, these will be too heavy, and apt to bend when the Telescope is using. When the Telescopes are long, there have been many Contrivances to manage and use them, as may be feen in Hevelius's Machina Cceleflis ; Father Cherubin's Works •, de la Hire's, and others ; all very expenfive, complicated, and trouble- fome •, but Mr Huygcns happily freed Aftronomy from this expenfive Lumber, in his Aftrofcopia Compendiaria Tubi Optici Molimine Liberata, printed at the Hague, in 1684$ who placing the Object-Glass upon a long upright Pole, contrived to direct it's Axis to- wards any Object, by a fine Silk-Line coming down from the Glass above to the Eye-Glass below -, which Invention was fuccefsfully practifed both by himfelf and others ; particularly the late Dr Pound, and Mr Bradley, with Mr Huygens's own Object-Glass of 123 Feet focal Dittance, prefented with it's Aparatus by Mr Huygens to our Royal Society. His contri- vance is this :

ab (Fig. 12. Plate 2. of the Appendix) is the Mart or Pole fet upright in an open Fig. 12. Place, nearly as long as the Telescope itfelf, having one side of it made flat almost all pfafg it it's whole Length, upon which is nailed two Slips of Wood forming a long Dove-tail Channel •, in which is fitted a moveable Board c d. On the Top of the Pole there is placed a Pully a, over which goes an endlefs Rope, near half an Inch thick, and as long again as the Pole. All way up the Pole, are fixed triangular wooden Steps to go up to the Top upon Occafion, not marked in the Scheme. This Rope ferves to draw up or down the moveable Board c d, with a fteady eafy Motion, and to the Middle of this Board c d, there is fixed a wooden Arm e, extended a Foot from the Pole •, and the Middle of another Board// a Foot and a half long, is laid horizontal, and at right Angles, over the End of that Army and fixed to it •, the Object-Glass mud be placed upon one End of this crofs Board, and the whole mult be lifted up and down by the Rope above-mentioned, the Ends of it being tied to the Top and Bottom of the Aiding Board c d, and the whole must be counterpoiled by a leaden Weight b, of a conical Form, fixed to the Rope on the other Side of the Pully in such a Place, that the Weight may be at the Top when the Objed- Glass is at the Bottom, and contrariwife.

The Object- Glass is fixed within a Tin or Brass Tube /, four Inches long, and to the Outfide ot this Tube is fixed a ftrait Stick k /, about an Inch thick, at the Distance of 8 or 12 Inches from the End of the Tube ; the whole is fupported by a Brass Ball m, as big as a Marble, fixed to the fai-d Stick by a fhort Neck, lodged in a hollow Socket, in which it may play very freely without dropping out ; let the Socket and it's cylindrical Pedeftal. be flit into two Leaves, and held together by a Screw passing through both, but not so clofe as to pinch the Ball. By this means the Object-Glass and the Stick annexed are moveable every way, and to keep them in Equilibrio, an equal Counterpoife of Lead n is fixed to the under Part of the Stick k /, by a ft iff" Brass Wire / •, lb that by bending this Wire to and fro, the common Centre of Gravity of the Weight, the Lens and Parts annexed may be eafily placed in the Centre of the Brass Ball, and then the Compound will be moveable with the lcaft Touch, and will Rest; in any given Pofition; and in this confifts the Judgment of the whole Invention. Having ftuck the Pedeftal of the Ball and Socket m into a Hole in the End of the crofs Board//, a Silk Line is tied to the Bottom of the Stick k /, an- nexed to the Object- Glass, whose Length is longer than that of the Telescope, as that the other End of it may be brought to the Eye-Glass •, so that when the Object-Glass is raifed up to the Top of the Pole by gently drawing this Thread, while you are moving round the Pole, the Object- Glass will readily obey it's Motion, and be directly oppofed to what Star you pleafe. Which could never be performed without placing it in the State of Liberation abovementioned : now since it is abiblutely neceflary that the Stick k I fliould be parallel to the Silk Line In, a fhort Brass Wire is placed at the Tail of the Stick, and is bene downwards To far 'till the End of it, where the Silk is tied, be as much below die Stick as the Centre of the Ball and Socket is.

The Eye-Glals is included in a fliort Tube 0, joined to a Stick p, which may also have a Ball to Rest upon, or rather a little tranfverfe Axis q, and a Weight below the Stick to ba- lance the Tube and Eye-Glass. The Obferver takes hold of a Handle r, fixed to the tranf- verfe Axis, and holds the lower Stick p, directed towards the upper one k /, by means of the Line that connects them, and winds about a Peg or Spool /, fixed in the lower Stick p - y io that by pulling gently to extend the Line, the two Glasses will become parallel to each other ; the lower Part of the String comes through a small Hole made with a Wire, at the farther End of the lower Stick p, like the Pin of a Fiddle, fhortening or lengthening the String at pleafure, 'till the Distance between the Glasses be brought to a juft Length requi- site for diftinct Vifion.

Note, At u are the Pins ftuck crofs each other to make a Hole for the Line to pass through.

In order to keep the Eye-Glass fteady, the Obferver, whether ftanding or fetting, fhould Support his Arms upon a wooden Rest x, with only two Feet, holding the Eye-Glass in one of his Hands, which is a readier and more commodious Way than to fix the Eye-Glass upon a three- footed Rest.

When the Nights are dark, and a Star is to be found in the Telescope, a Lanthorn y is used, which collects the Light into a Stream, either by Tranfmition through a convex Lens, or by Reflection by a concave Speculum ; for by directing this Stream of Light 'till it falls upon the Object-Glass, and makes it vifible, it is eafy for the Obferver to change his place, 'till he finds the Star is covered by the Middle of the Object-Glass, and then to apply his Eye-Glass, which is fooner done than by a Telescope with a long Tube. By Moon-Light the Object-Glass is vifible without a Lanthorn. But in viewing the Moon through the Telescope, a Pafte-board Umbrella fhould be put about the Object-Glass, of such a Diameter as to cover a Space in the Sky above twice as broad as the Moon, to in- tercept that Light from coming to the Eye, which would pass by the Sides of the Object- Glass, and by mixing with the Light that comes through the Telescope, and would dilate the Appearance of the Lights and Shades in the Face of the Moon.

This is the Subftance of that excellent Contrivance of Mr Huygeni for viewing Objects without long Tubes ; those who want the full Account, may confult Mr Huygens\ little Treatife abovementioned, or Dr Smith's Englifh Transition of it, in the Second Volume of his Opticks.

Of all the Instruments invented by Mankind, there are none that ever exceeded Per- lpectives and the Telescope, for the vaft amufive Pleafure, and real Uie afforded by them. How is a Perfon delighted with clearly viewing distant terRestrial Objects through these In- ftruments, but faintly, or not at all, appearing with the naked Eye, by reason of their great Distance ? And how great is their real Use upon many Occafions for Inftance, in difcover- ing the Enemy at Sea or Land, in time of War, to which all the good Coniequences de- rived from such Dilcovery, are to be attributed ? How poor., lcanty, obfeure, and impertect, Was the State of Aftronomy, in it's phyfical Part, before the Use of the Telescope, which .wiped off from it the Dull of Obfcurity, cleared away the Rubbifh of Error, and opened and widened the narrow clogged up Paffage of Sight, leading into the bright, and delightful Manfions of the heavenly Bodies, so vaitly distant placed, and imperfectly and minutely feen by the naked Eye. By this they are diftinctly feen with Wonder, and pleafmg Amaze- ment, enlarged in Lignefs and DiM mction ; and many things are difcovered, which now arc become familiar to us, that mortal Eyes never before law, or Men could ever have thought of. This is the Instrument which has brought us into a perfect Acquaintance with those fur- prifing Parts of the Creation, far feparated horn our Globe of Earth, and with which we are allowed no other Commerce but looking and obferving, and admiring the delightful Me- chanifm of the Works of the Creator, thereby giving us the greateft and moll refpectful Notions of his Wifdom and Power ; and the fir ft Inventors of this Instrument, whoever they were, ought always to be highly eftcemed, as well as looked upon to be great Promo- ters of Human Happinefs.

But enough of this. Some of the particular Difcoveries of the Telescope are these.

I. Spots in the Sun first difcovered by Galilao and Scheiner, a Jefuit, about the Year 1611, of various Shapes,' Bigneffcs, and Durations, they all confift ot a black Part in the Middle, of some irregular Figure, encompafild with a cloudy Border of a colour less Dark. Heve- lius fays it fometimes happens, that after the gradual Decay and difappearing of the black Part, it's place fcems brighter than the Rest of the Sun, and continuing so for two or three Days, but Mr Huygens could not obferve this. Scheiner, in his Book called Rofa Urfma, tells you he made 2000 Obfervations of folar Spots for 20 Years together, and fometimes faw above 50 at once; but bttwixt the Years 1650, and 1670,- he law none; fometimes they have been feen with the naked Eye. I myfelf faw one Spot at London in the middle of November, some Years ago. There are many Obfervations of folar Spots to be found amongft Authors, such as GaliUo, Scheiner, Hevelius, Huygens, Cajfini, and in the 'Tranfac- tions of the Royal Societies ok London, Paris, Berlin, in my Opinion not worth particulari- zing. By means of these Spots it is found the Sun revolves about his Axis in about 25. or 26 Days. 2. GaliUo, with his little Telescope, first difcovered the Phafes of Venus ; he first faw Venus perfectly round, neat, and diftinctly terminated, but very small ; after which her roundnefs decreafed, 'till fhe appeared femi-circular, and then horned, less and less, 'till they became so thin as to vanifli at her Occultation in the Beams of the Sun, imitating all the Phafes of the Moon. Mr de la Hire fays, that he never failed of feeing the Tranfits of Venus through the moveable Telescope belonging to the Mural Quadrant at the Royal Ob- fervatory at Paris, though wit/fin two Degrees of the Sun. He observed her Tranfit in Au- gajl 1700, with a hxteen Foot Tube, which magnified her Diameter of one Minute about 90 Times, when fhe appeared in the Form of a fine (lender Crefcent, with her Horns in an horizontal Line, and her Back upwards; that in the interior Arch of the Crefcent he faw fome Inequalities more confiderab!e than those of the New Moon, by which he judged fhe might have Spots upon her, like those of the other Planets. In November 1691, he faw her at Noon, very near her fuperior Conjunction with the Sun, appearing round and very small. Mr CaJJini several Times observed two Spots on Venus, and in the Year 1666, on the third of March at Bologna, with a Telescope of 16 f Feet he faw four Spots, and on February 24th he difcovered two others larger, which were feen at Rome with a 35 Foot Te- lefcope by Mr Campani. Mr Blanchini, in the Year 1726, at Rome, with Campani's Glasses of 70 and 100 Roman Palms local Distance, difcovered several dark Spots on the Disk of Venus, from whence he concludes that a Revolution of Venus, about her Axis, was not finifhed in 23 Hours, 20 Minutes, as CaJJini imagined, but in 24 ' Days.

The Phafes of Mercury are exactly like those of Venus, or the Moon ; but the Telescopes must be pretty good, and properly managed, to obferve them well, by reason of the ex- ceffive Brightnefs, and fhort Digreffion from the Sun of this Planet. Kepler once took a large Spot in the Sun for Mercury ; and GaJJendus at Paris took Mercury in the Sun to be a Spot: on Oclober 29, 1723, there was a Conjunction of Mercury and the Sun, when the Diameter of Mercury was then observed by a very good Micrometer, applied to the Huy- genian Telescope of 123 Feet, to be \o" \. On the 24th of November 1629, our Horox faw Venus in the Sun, by projecting the Sun's Image upon a white Paper in a dark Room, whereon fhe appeared to be a fine round dark Spot. The Particulars about the Phafes of Mercury and Venus, are to be found in Gajfendus's Mercurius in Sole vifus, ci? Venus invifa ; and in Hevelius's Mercurius in Sole vifus. See the Treatife of this last, entituled, Selenogra- phia. Also fee the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris for the Year 1700, &c. There is nobody that ever could difcover Spots in Mercury.

Dr Halley tells us, that Mercury in 46 Years, makes 191 Revolutions about the Sun; that he appeared the 28th of Oclober, in the Year 163 1, on the Sun's Disk ; ken by Gajfen- dus at Paris afterwards, on the 28th of October 1677 ; feen by himfelf at St Helena. He fays also, that Mercury appeared in the Sun on the 23d of April, 1661. On the 26th ot April, 1674. On the 24th of April, 1707. And on the last Day of Oclober 1726. The Doctor alio fays, that on the 26th of May (O. S.), in the Year 1761, near Six o'Clock in the Morning at London, Venus will appear in the Sun's Disk, not above four Minutes South of its Centre; and obferves, if proper Obfervations be made upon the then tranfit of Venus with good Clocks and Telescopes, in different distant Parts of the World, the Sun's Paral- ]ax may be determined, and Distance from the Earth to the Exa&nefs of the 100th Part of the whole, (fee the Philosophical ¥ ran factions, Numb. 348.) whereas by the befl Obferva- tions hitherto made, fays he, we are not abfolutely certain of those Quantities to less than about the 7th Part of them.

That we are not certain of these Quantities I always thought, and ever shall -, the Sun's Parallax is too small a Matter to be obtained by Obfervation to any Exactnefs that can be depended upon. The Doctor himfelf owns it to be exceeding small, but fays, upon many repeated trials Dr Pound and Dr Bradley, by a Micromoter apply'd to the Focus of a Te- lefcope, found it to be not more than 12", and less than 9" '. Now, fettino- afide the Inac- curacy in the Structure, and Smallnefs of the Radius, 65V. of the Instruments used for this Purpofe, the Error in defect ariling from the Refraction alone may be so preat, as even to exceed 9". If fo, what becomes of this (lender Parallax, and how immenfely farther off must the Sun be distant ?

Indeed Dr Halley, in the Philosophical Tranf actions, at Numb. 368. would have the Air's Refraction to be so little, that none but nice Instruments can perceive it's Effects ; and that Sir Tfaac Newton was the fir ft who afcertained it, and made a true Table thereof, which 13 fet down in that Tranfaction. But the Air's Refraction is so unconftant as not to be afcertain- ed, and is always greater than many able Astronomers are willing to allow and suppose. Sir Ifaac Newton's Table makes the horizontal Refraction to be 11 • 45 // « viz- hVd, when ne- verthelefs it is known to be very inconllant at different Times, and in different Places. The Dutch formerly wintering at Nova Zembla, I found there the horizontal Refraction to be 4 Degrees. Sir Ifaac's Table takes the Refraction at Altitudes above 75 Degrees to be so small as not to be worth Notice. But De la Hire's Table of Refraclions is extended to 89 Degrees of Altitude, making it there to be one second. And the famous Mr Caffmi fays, it extends quit up to the Zenith. Dr Halley, in the Tranfaction before mentioned, fays, all Distances of Stars are contracted by Refraction, when they are parallel to the Horizon, by the fame con- front Quantity, be they nigh or low, viz. one second to a Degree •, because (fays he) the Chords of the real and vifible Arches, are in the conftant Ratio of the Sine of the Angle of In- cidence to that of the refracted Angle. But herein, I think, lies a Fallacy, for he takes the re- fractive Power, of the Air at all Times to be conftant at equal Altitudes above the Horizon. Whereas this is known to be otherwise. For in Mr Hawkefhy's Phyjico- Mechanical Expcrim. pag. 175. it is fhevvn, that the refractive Power of the Air is proportional to the Air's Denfi- ty, and since this Denfity is found to be variable, that refractive Power must by confequence be so too. Moreover, Sir Ifaac Newton, in the tenth Propofition of his second Book of Op- tics, fays, that the refractive Power of Air, and all Bodies, feems to be proportional to their Denfities, or very nearly, excepting so far as they partake of fulphureous oily Particles, and thereby have their refractive Powers made greater or less ; whence, fays he, it feems rational to attribute the refractive Power of all Bodies chiefly, if not wholly, to the fulphureous Pares with which they abound. Confequently, as I said above, Dr Halley's taking the Refraction of the Air at equal Altitudes to be always the fame cannot be true, because the Air's Denfity at those Altitudes varies, as is found by the Barometer. Whence the denfer the Air is, the greater is the Refraction at a given Altitude ; and it will be ftill the more fo, as it abounds with fulphureous oily Particles. Hence it fhould feem, that in dry Weather, when the Mercury in the Barometer is higheft, and the Air is the fulleft of such Particles, the Refrac- tion will be the greater at a given Altitude. But whether the Air in Summer has not more such Particles in it than in the Winter, in the fame parallel of Latitude •, or whether in very cold frofty Weather there are not more than in warmer Weather, are Things that fhould be more inquired into than the Astronomers have hitherto done, in order to determine and afcer- tain the true Quantity of the Refraction of the Light coming from an observed celeftial Ob- ject, at a given Time, Place, and Altitude.

But to obferve a little farther on this Subject. Dr Nettleton, in the Philosophical Tranf ac- tions, Numb. 388. fays, in taking the Altitudes of some Hills, the Obfervations were so di- fturbed by the Refractions that he could come to no Certainty. Having measured the Height of one Hill in a clear Day, he found it, by repeating the Operation on a cloudy Day, when the Air was fomewhat grofs and hazy, to be different, and the small Angles to be io much augmented by the Refraction, as to make the Hill much higher than before, though they were carefully taken each Time by good Instruments. That pointing the Quadrant to the -Tops of some Mountains, they would appear higher in the Morning before Sun-rifing, and also late in the Evening, than at Noon in a clear Day. That one Morning in December, when the Vapours lay condenfed in the Vallies, and the Air. above was pure, the Top of a Mountain appeared more elevated by above 30 / than it did in September at Noon en a very clear Day. Hence, fays he, Refraction is fometimes greater than at others, but, probably, it is always very confiderable, and there being no certain Rule to make allowance for it, all Ob- fervations made on very high Hills, view'd at a Distance under very small Angles are uncer- tain, and fcarccly to be depended upon, generally erring in making the Heights greater than they really are. Thus Far Dr. Nettleton. Mr. Huygens long since, in his Treatife of Light obfervcs, that the Refraction of the Air changes every Hour, though indeed his Experi- ments were made upon very small Altitudes on Objects at Land. And father Laval (as appears in the French Hijiory of the Royal Academy * for the Year 1710.) observed the Sun's meridian Altitude on the 22c! of June (N. S.) 1710, to be 70 . 25'. 50'' '. And on the 23d of June, at the Pittance of 36 Hours from the Time of the Solftice, he found the meridian Al- titude to be 70 . 26'. 00". greater by 10", when it ought to be less. And having often- times observed such before, he lufpectcd the Refraction varied according to the Difference of the Quarters from whence the "Wind blew. Tycho Brache makes the Refractions of the Sun, Moon, and fixed Stars, to be different, and would have that of the Sun to end at 46 Degrees of Altitude, that of the Moon at 45, and that of the fixed Stars at 20 Degrees •, he makes the Sun's horizontal Parallax to be 34/, the Moon's 33', and the fix'd Stars 3c/, which are all too little. But de la Hire and CaJJ'mi makes it to be 32' in every Star. He makes that of the Sun at 03 to be ^,^\ and at 52 . to be 58". See his Table in his Progymnofm. Lib. I. pag. 79, 124, 280.

Hence amidst io much Difference and Uncertainty about the Refraction of the Air, one would be almofl led to be doubtful of the Truth of many aftronomical Conclusions, entirely depending upon and deduced from Obfervations, which Doubts mutt last 'till the Nature and Quantity of the Air's Refraction at all Times and Places, are better known and fettled. How can one believe the apparent Diameters of the Planets, which are so very small, are such as the Astronomers make them, when the true Refraction, at the Time and Place of Obfervation, is not well known ; and how can any great Degree of Belief be fixed upon what they fay, as to one of these very small apparent Diameter's being less at one Time of the Year than at another. In- deed, if the Obfervations were made near or under the Line, where the Refraction is by all allowed to be the least, efpecially of the meridian Altitudes, these would be the mod to be depended upon, and accordingly so would the Confequences deduced from them. The late Dr lialley had too flight an Opinion of the Air's Influence upon the Light moving through it, juft as he had of it's Influence upon the Motion of Projectiles, which he would have to move nearly in a Parabola, though now it is really found by Experience they do not. All this by the by. But to return from this feemingly out of the way Digreflion to the Telescopick Dis- coveries in the Moon.

It is difcovered by the Telescope, that the Moon's Surface is rough, like our Earth, diftin- guifhed into innumerable Mountain?, Caves, and Vallies ; because at the new Moon the Line joining her Horn?, and patting between the blight and dark Parts of the vifible Hemifphere appears to be compofed of many crooked Turnings and Windings. That many small bright Spots appear in the dark Portion, ftanding out at several small Distances from that common Boundary. And at some Time after they grow fenfibly larger, and apparently nearer to, and at last unite with, the bright Portion of the Hemifphere, juft as the Rays of the rifing Sun fhine first upon the Tops of our high Mountains, then defcend gradually to their Bases, and at last into the Vallies. There are many small Spots observed interfperfed all over the bright Portion of the Disk, some of which have their dark Sides next to the Sun, and their oppo- fite Sides very bright and circular, which fliews them to be round Cavities, whose Shadows fall within them ; and some of these are furrounded with Ridges of Mountains. That those larger and less luminous Tracts, which are vifible to the naked Eye, appear fmoother in the Telescope, and more deprefied than the ambient brighter Regions ; as is evident by a greater Regularity and Evennefs of the part of the Boundary of Light and Shade which passes through them at certain Times, and by it's Protuberances at both it's Extremities ; and these Tracts are not quite free from fmaller Inequalities, efpecially of Light and Shade.

Now these darker Regions may be compared to the Receptacles of our Seas emptied of their Water, for that they contain none appears from those permanent bright Spots observed in them by fhort Telescopes; and because larger Telescopes plainly not only difcover small Eminencies, but Cavities within them, which feems quite repugnant to the Nature of Seas, and the Obfcurity of their Colour may proceed from some fort of Matter that reflects less Light than the other Regions do. There may be Soils in the Moon very different from any we are acquainted with on the Earth.

The Magnitude of the Moon's Mountains is found to be much higher than any of the Earth's. When only the Tops of them are enlightened by the Sun, they appear as bright Specks in the dark Part of the Moon's Disk ; and the apparent Distance of several such Specks from the Limit between the dark and bright Parts of the new Moon, has been found to be about the 20th Part of the Moon's apparent Diameter, and from thence it has been concluded, that the Height of those Mountains is above five Miles. Ricciolus reckons the Height of one of the Moon's Mountains called St Catherine, to be nine Miles.

It could never be difcover'd by the beft Telescopes, that there were any vifible Changes in the Colours, Shapes," and Situation of the Moon's Spots ; their Appearances being always the fame, Allowances being made for their different Lights and Shades in different Ages of the Moon •, for the different Goodnefles of Telescopes, and the Clearnefs of our Atmofphere ; nor can it be fairly concluded, from any Obfervations hitherto made, that the Moon has an At- mofphere, although many Astronomers would make one believe it has. Cajfini, in the Me- moirs

88 Tekf topical DiJ cover ic$.

tnoirs ot the French Academy ■, for the Year 1706, fays, he has often observed the fpnerical Figure of Saturn, Jupiter, and the fixed Stars, at their Occultations near the enlightened or obfeure Limb of the Moon, to be changed into an oval Figure ; and at other Occultations he has difcovertd no such Alteration in their Figure, juft as the Sun and Moon in a vapour- ous Horizon appear to be ovular at their rifing or fetting. Hevclius, in his Ccmetogro.phia* Page 363, fays, that he has observed several Times in the moil ferene Air, whmin he could dilcover Stars of the fixth and seventh Magnitude, when the Moon had the fame Al- titude and Distance from the Earth, and with an excellent Tclefcope, that the Moon and her Spots did not appear equally bright and diftinct, but at fometimes did so much more than at others. Sometimes in a clear Air, when Stars of the fixth or seventh Magnitude were feen, the Moon has quite difappeared, so as not to be feen by the beft Telefaxes • such a thing was feen by Kepler in the Years 1580, 1583, and 1620 ; as also by Hevelius and by Ricciolus, the 14th ot April 1642. See Kepler's Optical Aftronomy, Pag. 227, 297. his Epitom. Aftron. Copernican. Lib. v. Pag. 825. Hevelius's Selenogr. Pag. 117, and Ric- dolus' 's Almag. Nov. Lib. iv. Cap. 6. Pag. 203.

It has been difcovered by the Tdefcope, that the Hemifphere of the Moon vifible to us is not at all Times quite the fame •, at one full Moon we fee a small Gore, or Segment, in the Margin of her Dirk that was quite hid at another •, so that her Body appears to us as if it librated to and fro ; fometimes eaftward or weftward, fometimes northward or fouth- ward, and fometimes in a Direction between both. See concerning this in Hevelius's Book de Motu Lun&lt;e Libratorio.

Langrenus and Hevelius were the first who publifhed Maps of the Moon's Spots, as they appear through a Telescope, with Names ot the most remarkable Spots and Regions, as well for the more immediate aftronomical Purpofes, as for Pofterity to obferve what Changes may happen in them.

Now we are upon the Moon, I believe the following fhort Digrefiion, concerning her Light, will not be difagreeable. Dr Smith, in the first Volume of his Opticks, Pag. 29, 30, fiys Day-Light is about 90000 Times greater than Moon-Light. And in his Remarks, Vol. II. pag. 16. tells us, one Mr Bouguer, in a Treatife of his entituled, EJfai dioptrique fur la gradation de la Lumiere, finds the Light of the full Moon to be about 300000 Times weaker than that of the Sun, at a Medium of several Trials : and the Doctor fays, juft after that, he himfelf found it by Theory, not much above 90000 Times : the Difference may arife chiefly (continues he) from the lofs of Light in the Moon's Body, which could not be allowed for in the Theory. Rut, I neither take the Sun's Light to exceed that of the Full- Moon near so much, as either of these Gentlemen here make it, nor the Experiments and Theory upon which they have proceeded, and deduced these their Conclusions, to be de- pended upon, and free from Error : for 1. the Doctor's Proof is upon the Suppofition that all Day-Light is much the fame, *. e. equal, he fays it, at Pag. 30, Vol. I. which is moll: evidently not so ; for the Day-Light of a cloudy Day in Winter is most certainly many Times less than that of a clear Day in the Summer. 2. The Doctor would have Moon- Light to be no greater than the Light of a white Cloud, which I take to be another Mi- stake. 3dly, Mr Bouguer supposes two Lights to be equal, when he thinks he fees them fo, by looking at them ; which at beft is but a fort of guefs-work, liable to great Uncertainty : the feeing minute Objects equally distant from two Lights with the fame Diftinction, would be better than this, though not certain neither. 4thly, That Light decreafes as the Square of the Distance, I am doubtful of, and have been so many Years •, there is no Proof of it by actual Experiments as I know : indeed, it has been long made out by Theory to be so •, but the practical Proof of these things is beft, and most to be relied upon ; and I have often thought, that Light in some cafes, as well as Pleat, may decreafe, rather as the Cubes of the Distances, than as the Squares ; be this as it will, I am fure neither the Doctor nor Mr Bouguer have made out their Affertions to my Satisfaction. I could fay a great deal more about this, but at prefent have not Inclination. If any body has a Mind to defend these Gentlemen in this Point, I shall then be urged on to proceed to farther Particulars. But to return to the

Telescopick Difcoveries.

The Diameter and Parallax of Mars are said to be above five Times greater in his Op- pofition to the Sun than in his Conjunction. In both these Pofitions his enlightened He- mifphere is fully expofed to the Earth, as well as the Sun : but not so fully in his Qua- dratures with the Sun, where he appears through a Telescope to be a little gibbous, like the Moon about three Days from the Full. Dr Hook and Mr CaJ/ini first difcovered Spots upon Mars of determinate Figures, by which it has been found that he revolves about his Axis in twenty -four Hours and forty Minutes. One of these Spots appeared like a Joyner's Square, or obtuse-angular Bevel -, these Spots change their Colours, Shapes, Situations, and vanifh at different Times. Mr Miraldi fays, that one of the bright Spots upon Mars appeared for near 60 Years, and that it was the only permanent Spot upon his Body. Mr Cojfir.i fays, he observed a fixed Star in the Water of Aquarius, which at the Distance of fix Mi- nutes from the Disk of Mars, became so faint before it's Occultation, that it could not be fcen with the naked Eye, nor with a three Foot Telescope. The like Diminution of it's Light after it's Occupation, was observed by Mr Reaumeur at Paris, who could not fee that Star with a large Telescope in a very clear Air, 'till it's Distance from Mars became equal to \ of it's Diameter, and yet Stars of that Magnitude are plainly vifible, even in Contact with the Moon : by a Comparifon of feveial Obfervations then made upon that Star, it was judged that it varied it's Distance from the neighbouring Stars ; and by some it has been therefore concluded, that Mars has a very extenfive Atmofphere. See more particularly about these Spots in du Hamel's Hiftory of the French Royal Society, pag. 9 J, 107. Edit. 2.

In the Pbilofopbical Tranfac7ions, at Numb. 128, Dr Halley fhews how to find from three given Distances of Mars trom the Sun, his mean Distance and Excentricity, which in effect amounts to the Construction of a Geometrical Problem, viz. one of the Foci of an EllipfiSj palfing through three given Points being given : to defcribe such an Ellipfis, thence find the other Focus, as also the two Axes. Now the Doctor's Conftruction is by the Interferon of two Hyperboles, which will be in the other Focus required ; but this is only a plain Problem, conftructable by right Lines and Circles, without the actual Defcription of two Plyperbolas, although, indeed, the doing it by two Hyperbolas is the molt fhort and na- tural way poflible •, the plain Problem in effect is, to find the Centre of a Circle (which will be the other Focus), that shall touch three given Circles : and a more elegant Computa- tion of this than what the Doctor has given in that 1'ranfatlion, may be obtained from Lemma 16. Sect. 4. Lib. i. Princip. Mat hem. Philof. Naturalis of Sir Ifaac Newton.

By the Telescope it is difcovered, that on Jupiter there are two Belts lighter than the Rest of his Disk terminated by parallel Lines, which are fometimes broader, fometimes narrower* and not always fituated on the fame Part of the Disk. And Mr Huygens fays {In his Syftem of Saturn, pag. 7.), that he faw in March, in the Year 1656, a much broader though ob- icurer Belt, in the Middle of the Diik of Mars.

About the End a\~ November, in the Year 1609, Simon Marias (fee his Preface Ad Mun~ dum Jovialem), first Mathematician to the Elector of Brandenburgb, first difcovered three Stars moving about Jupiter, and attending him ; and in February 1610, he faw a fourth: and in Italy, Galileo law the fame Stars the 7th of January, in the Year 1610, and pub- lifhed his Obfervations upon them in a Treatife, entitled, Nuncius Sidcreus. Thefe four Stars, called Satellites, moving about Jupiter, are at different Distances from him, and the periodical Times of the Motions of the first, is one Day and about 18 4 Flours-, of the second, three Days, and about 13 Flours; of the third, seven Days, and almost 14 Hours j and of the fourth, fixteen Days, and about 16 \ Hours. Mr CaJJini, and others, difcover- ed Changes in Jupiter's Belts. Spots upon the Satellites. Jupiter's Figure to be fpheroi- dical. The Ratio of his Axis to his equatorial Diameter being according to Cajfini as 14 13 to 15; and according to the late Dr Pound,' as 12 is to 13. Tranfits of the Body and Shadows of the Satellites, in Form of black Spots over the Disk of Jupiter. There are a great many Particulars about these Spots, to be found in aftronomical Writings, efpecially in the Tranfaclions of the French Royal Society, fcarcely worth mentioning here, as I think.

Tables of the Motions of Jupiter's Satellites were first publifhed by Mr Cajfini, then Mr Flamftead, and by Dr Halley, and afterwards by Dr Pound. There are ethers too who have given Tables of them. But these may be looked upon as little more than bare Tranfcribers. Dr Pound particularly has endeavoured to rectify the Motion of the first Satellite nuxt to Jupiter, and to make the Calculation eafy of it's Eclipfes in the Shadow of Jupiter, thirteen of which happen in a Month, thereby affording very frequent Opportunities of determining the Longitude of Places, efpecially at Land, by Time-keepers, and Telescopes of proper Lengths, viz. those of 12, 16, or 20 Feet at least ; it being found, that with fhorter Tele- fcopes the Times of the Emerfions cannot be so well determined as with longer.

This Way of finding the Longitude of Places at Land is practicable, and fufficiently exact* but at Sea it has been found to be ineffectual, by reason of the Length of the Telescope, which Cannot be managed with fufficient Steadinefs and Dexterity in a Ship, during it's various Agita- tions by the Winds and Waters. The Way of finding the Longitude of Places, by the Ob- fervations of the Times of the Eclipfes of the Satellites of Jupiter is certainly ingenious, but liable to some Difadvantages ; for were the Telescope, by which Jupiter and his Satellites is observed, never so good, and well managed, there are none but Astronomers, and those who have been a good while accuftomed to celeftial Obfervations that could do this Bufinefs with- out being liable to miftakes. Though almost every Body knows Jupiter, and can diftin- guifh him from the Rest of the Stars near him, a Perfon not used to Obfervation may take one Satellite for another, or fixed Stars for Satellites, as did Antonius Maria Schyrleus de Rheitd, a Capuchin of Cologne, who thought he had difcovered five more Satellites moving about Ju- piter on the 29th Day of December, 1642, which for the Honour of Pope Urban the Vlllth he call'd by the Name of Sidera Urbana Oclaviana. See Gajfendus's Letter to Gabr. Naudaum de novem Stellis circa Jovem vijis, which tum'd out to be only five fix'd Stars. Besides all this, the Influence that the Satellites have upon each other are observed to difturb their Mo- tion in some meafurc; and that of the first is said to be liable to Inequalities that will caufe

Effects not eafily reduced to any Rule, but from a long Series of Obfervations. See the Philcfpbical Franfaftions, Numb. 394. Also in these Tranfadions, are to be ken Obferva- tions of Eclipfes of the Satellites of Jupiter, in many Parts of the World.

One Mr Reaumeur, a foreign Astronomer, many Years ago, from the Difference between the calculated Time of one of these Eclipfes, and the observed Time, will have it that Light is about ten Minutes in its Paffage from Jupiter to us. Sir Ifaac Newton and his Followers will have it to be in but seven or eight Minutes. Others have laid, the whole is doubtful. See the Memoirs of the French Royal Society for the Years 1707, and 1729. of which last Num- ber I myfelf am one. For I think no Man ever knew enough of the Nature and Motion of Light, to be certain how it really moves and acts. Dr Barrow was a very great Man, as well as Sir Ifaac Newton. He fays in his Opticks, that the Arguments for and against the di- rect Propagation of projected Light, and it's Propagation by the small Jmpulfes of fome elastick fluid Medium were lo equal, that he durft not venture to affert which was right ; they- might be partly both, fays the Doflcr.

I have lately thought, that the Sun's Light and Heat too is not only greatcft where it is molt reflected and refracted, but in the vaft Space between the Sun and the Planets, where there is little or no reflective or refractive Matter, the Sun's Light and Heat is least, whe- ther the Distances be nearer or farther from the Sun. That his Heat is moil in Vallics, and low fandy Situations, is well known by Experience •, and that on the Tops of many Mountains, even near the Line there is Snow to be found at all Times of the Year. (See Farenius's Geo- graphy.) And I take many of our upper Clouds to be chiefly Snow or Hail, both Summer and Winter. Hence, at a small Distance from the Earth's Surface the Sun's Heat must needs be confiderably leffer than at the Surface itfelf, and at greater Distances upwards towards the Sun, it is not unreasonable to suppose the Sun's Heat to be fbli less, and that it may decreafe to certain Limits, either towards the Sun or from it. Confequently, if this be the Cafe of the Sun's Heat, I fhould think it must be so of his Light too, which is greateft at the Surface of the Planets, by reason of the Refraction of their Atmofpheres (supposing them to have such) and the Reflections at their Surfaces, &c. and therefore from these, and many other Considerations, I am doubtful whether the Sun's Light at the several Planets., be the great- eft, the nearer the Planet is to the Sun ; and whether, if a Perfon were a thoufand Miles, for Inftance, above the Earth, towards the Sun, the Light that he would perceive there would not be very weak and faint. Thefe foreign, fhort, and rude Suppolitions, may per- haps ferve as a Bar in the Way to hinder the taking Conjectures for Certainty, and making Conclusions founded upon the imaginary Nature of Light, which no Body truly knows (nor perhaps never will) be taken as indubitable Truths. Sir Ifaac Newton's Proposition, about the Time of the Motion of Light from the Sun to the Earth is very fhort. It is Prob. XI. of Part 3. Book 2. of his Opticks. He fays, when the Earth is bet./een the Sun and Jupiter, the Eclipfes of the Satellites happen above seven or eight Minutes fooner than they ought to do by the Tables ; and when the Earth is beyond the Sun, they happen about feVen or eight Minutes later than they ought to do, the Reason being, that the Light of the Satellites has farther to go in the latter Cafe than in the former, by the Diameter of the Earth's Or- bit, fcff.

In the Philosophical Franfaffions, Numb. 406. there is a curious Account of Dr Bradley's to prove, that Light is eight Minutes coming from Jupiter to us, chiefly from Obfervations of the Declinations of the fixed Stars being different some Times of the Year, from what they are at other Times, by some Seconds, though never exceeding 4c/ / or 41". The Particulars of his Obfervations are there fet down for two Years, viz. 1727, and 1728. Upon the whole of which I shall briefly obferve, 1. The taking Angles to Seconds are very nice Things, of- tentimes fubject to Uncertainty, efpecially by reason of the Difference of the Refraction in the Air at the Time of the Obfervations, not yet fettled as it fhould be, by any Rules or Tables that ever yet has appeared in publick. 2dly. There is besides another Doubt with me, viz. whether upon the increafing or leffening the Magnitude of the Pupil of the Eye, the Magnitude of the Optick- Angle will not be accordingly increafed or decreafed. And if this be the Cafe, since the Pupil increafes as the Light falling upon it decreafes, whether small Distances and apparent Diameters of Objects in the Heavens, though these Objects be equally distant from the Eye, will not at one Time appear more or less by some Seconds, than at another Time, viz. generally less in the Summer, when the Light is greateft; and greater in the Winter, when the Light is least. And whether the apparent Diameter of the fame distant Object, at the fame Distance, will not appear greater, if by any Caufe it be- comes less bright, or more obfeure, than when it is more fhining or white. 3dly. It feems to require several Years Obfervations, at several Places, by several People, to fix the Truth of this ingenious Gentleman's great Conclusions beyond Difpute. He is certainly a fine Ob- ferver, and great Astronomer ; but the Love of Truth, and that only, has made me ad- vance these Doubts, not out of any Ill-nature, or Difrefpect, or with any View ot acquiring the least Praife thereby. If I am but right, that is all I care for. And no Man can juftly be blamed for reasonable Sufpicions in Science efpeciallv, which fhould always be clothed in Truth,

There is another ingenious Discourse of the Doctor's in the Philosophical Tranfaclions^ Hunib. 485, for the Year 1747, on the apparent Motion of Tome of the fixed Stars.

Saturn has the mod extraordinary Appearance through a Telescope, of any of the Rest of the Planets. Galileo, with a bad Telescope, took him for three Globes, a larger between two fmaller, almost contiguous to one another. Sometimes the middle Globe was left quite alone. Then they feemed to ftick to the middle Globe •, to put on various Shapes, appear- ing fometimes round, fometimes oblong, like Acorns, fometimes femicircular, then lunar, with Horns pointing towards the Globe in the middle, and growing by degree so long, and so wide, as to encompass it with an oval Ring. Thefe monftrous Appearances puzzled the Astronomers at fir ft to account for them. Hevelius, in his little Trad, Be nativa facie Sa- turni, reckons Saturn, 1. To be Mono-fphcrical. 2. Tri-fpherical. 3. Two-handled- fpheri- cal. 4. Elliptical-handled. 5. Spherical-horned. And these Phafes he has again fub-di- ftinguiihed. But Mr Huygens, in his Syftcm of Saturn, evidently made it appear, that these wonderful imperfect Appearances were owing to the want of good Telescopes. For with bet- ter ones he difcovered a Ring about Saturn, which was the true Caule of all those furprizing Phenomena •, and bcsides that, a Satellite revolving round Saturn every fixteen Days, or there- abouts, in the Plane of the King produced. This Satellite was first difcovered by him in March, \&S5-&gt; D y Telescopes of 12 and 23 Feet; and afterwards Cajfini, at different Times, found out tour more Satellites, viz. the two neaRest to Saturn, with the Telescopes of Cam- ■pani of 100 and 136 Feet, in March, 1684. The third in December, 1672. with one of Campani's Telescopes of 35 Feet-, and the fifth (viz. that of Huygens's) in Oclober, i6ji. by a Telescope or 1 7 Feet. Afterwards he faw the two inward ones, with Telescopes of Campari of 47 and 34 Feet •, and by Telescopes of Borelli of 40 and 70 Feet •, and at length, by Telescopes of Artouquelliitfs of 80, 155, and 220 Feet. See the Philosophical Tranf- aclions, Numb. 92, and 181. Mr Huygens, with a 12 Feet Tube, faw Saturn with two Arms oppositely extended from his Globe, and a darkifli Zone or Line pafTing ftraight over the Disk, between the upper Sides ol the Arms was vifible. He faw Saturn quite round fometimes, and that Zone was parallel to our Equator. He makes the Space between the Globe and the Ring ro be equal to, or rather bigger than, the Breadth of the Ring, and the greateft Diameter of the Ring is to the Diameter of the Globe, as nine is to four, but Df Pound makes it ro be as (even is to three. That there is empty Space between the Ring and the Body is evident, from feeing the fixed Stars fometimes through it. The broad side of the Ring has fometimes appeared bifecfed quite round by a dark elliptick Line, divided as it were into two Rings, of which the inner one appeared brighter than the outer. The Ring continues invifible all the Time that it's Plane produced passes between the Sun and the Earth. Mr Caffmi fays, he could fee all the five Satellites of Saturn with a 34 Feet Tube% whereas Mr lladley owns, he never could have the Fortune to fee them all five with his Reflecting Telescope. The periodical Times of the Satellites are of the first, one Day and about 21 Flours ; of the 2d two Days and about 17 Hours ; of the 3d four Days and about 12 Hours •, of the 4th fifteen Days and about 22 Hours •, and of the 5th seventy-nine Days and about 7 Flours. There are many other curious particular Phenomena of Saturn and his Satellites, observed by Huygens, Caffmi, Muraldi, Dr Pound, &c. with the Telescope. See the Second Vol. of Dr Smith's Opticks, from page 438, to 447. and our Philosophical Tranf- aclions,, as well as thole of the French. I shall only add here, that it might fomewhat ftrtngthen the Truth of the Affertion already mentioned, viz. that Light is about seven or eight Minutes in it's Paffage from Jupiter's Satellites to us. If from the like Obfervations of the Eclipfes of Saturn's Satellites, the Difference of the observed Times, from the Times by the Tables, were found to be proportional to that seven or eight Minutes, as Saturn's mean Distance is to Jupiter's. But this I leave to Astronomers, having neither Inclination nor Abilities to attempt it myfelf. It may, perhaps, be impoffible, though indeed, at pre- fent, I do not fee that it is.

The beft Telescopes do not at all magnify the apparent Diameters of the fixed Stars, nor can it be difcovered that the fixed Stars have any fenfible Parallax. Mr Caffini, in the French Memoirs for the Year 171 7, fays, that he faw Sirius under an Angle of 5" or 6 // , with a 36 Foot Telescope, and then with a 3 Foot Telescope. But Dr Halley, in the Philosophical Tranfaclions, Numb. 369, has fhewn the Fallacy of this his Affertion. The Radius of Caf- fini' s Instrument of 3 Feet being too small for such a nice Obfervation, and the Difference of the Refractions of the Air, which may be f or 8", being greater than this whole Parallax, 5" or 6" supposed to be observed.

The beft Telescopes have difcovered nothing extraordinary in the fixed Stars ; you only fee vaft Multitudes of them hid from the naked Eye, excepting indeed, that Mr Huygens, in his Syftem of Saturn, tells us, he faw three Stars in the middle of Orion's Sword (marked by Bayer) together with four more, fhine out, as it were, through a whitifh Cloud, much brighter than the ambient Sky, which being very black and ferene, caused the lucid Partes to appear like an Aperture that gave a Profpect into a bright Region. He found it to conti- nue in the fame Place, and not altered in Shape. See another of these in our Philosophical Tranjaclions, Numb. 347.

©ppofite to which Hole is placed a lYnall Speculum of the fame Metal F F, concave towards the great Metal, and so fix'd to a crooked Arm, that it may be brought towards or carried from the great Speculum, keeping it's Axis ftill in the fame Line (viz. the common Axis of both the Speculums) ; and by that means parallel Rays, or Rays from the Points of a very distant Object, coming to the great Speculum in the Lines O O, P P, &V. and falling upon the great Speculum between B and C will be so united at it's Focus, as to form there the Image G G of the Object O P, iuppofed to be at a vail Distance. The Rays diverging a^ain from their refpective Points of the Images, go on diverging, and fall upon the little Concave F F, whose focal Length is D I, and from it's Surface are reflected nearly parallel to their re- fpective Axes (not quite fo, because D G is greater than D I) and with all the Axes, or prin- cipal Rays, move parallel to the convex Axis through the Hole in the great Speculum, irt the Direction D A -, so entering into the small Tube NMMN, which is fixed to the great Tube behind the Speculum, fall upon the plano-convex Eye- Lens N N, and pafling through it form a second Image atgg* whose Bignefs is limited by the Hole of a perforated opake Circle placed at R R. That second or erect Image of the first inverted Image of an erect Object, is feen large by the Eye at E, which fees it through the small Hole in the Plate M M, and the last Eye-Glass S S, which is a Menifcus. For the Eye will fee it under the Angle S E S, made by the Axes of those Pencils of Rays which came from the Extremities of the vifible Object •, and the Rays belonging to each Pencil will be parallel to their refpective Axes, and the fpurious Rays will be all cut off by the Plate M M, which makes the Vifion diftinet. This Telescope is not only good for common Eyes, but the Rays that enter the Eye will be made to converge a little for old Eyes, or to diverge a little for fhort- lighted Eyes, by means of a Screw fixed to the Arm of the little Concave to remove, or to bring it forwards upon Occafion. - l g- 14. The Figure of this Telescope, upon a Support, is feen at Fig. 14. This Support is

contrived thus, the Base of the Pedeftal a b is a thick Board Resting upon four brafs Feet underneath it, one of which being a Pin p, that fcrews through the Board, will make it fteady upon any uneven Plane, b is a small upright Pillar about a Foot long, fixed in the Board #, and c d is a brafs Arm that fcrews into it. d e is a fhort brafs Piece, that turns round upon the End of the Arm c d y and is tightened and (fayed by the Screw d. c is a hol- low Socket, having a round brafs Ball in it, moveable any way, and tightened and ftayed by a Screw or two ; the Neck of this Ball is fixed to the middle of a long brafs Piece fg, which is fixed along the Side of the Tube h i, by the Screws/^, and may be taken off at pleafure. Thus the Tube is fupported, and made capable of being gradually moved, and ftayed in any Pofition. The larger concave Metal having a Hole in the middle of it, is lodged in the Bottom of the larger Tube h i k&gt; and the fmaller concave Metal is held in the Axis of the Tube, near the Mouth of it, by a small brafs Arm coming through a Slit in the Tube at h. The long iron Wire h i k on the outfide of the Tube fkrews through a Hole in the Arm at b&gt; and is confined from moving Length-ways, by two Shoulders on each side of a small Hole in a fixed Plate at i ; and being turned round itfelf by the Knob at k, it draws the Arm and little Concave backward or forward, in order to procure diftinet Vifion of Objects, at various Distances, and for Eyes of different Sorts ; while the Obferver is looking in at the End / of a fhort flender Tube that is fkrewed into the End of the larger, and carries the Eye-Glasses. When this Telescope is used at home, the Pedeftal a b may be placed upon a Table near a Window, or upon a Window board ; but when it is used abroad, the Pedeftal may be left at home. For having tapped a Hole in the Side of a Tree, or any piece of Wood, with the Hand-Augre m, the wooden Screw at the End of the Arm c d, may be prefently fcrewed in- to it •, the Augre m being put through the Hole c, to give Power to the Hand in turning the Screw.

This reflecting Telescope made about 16 Inches long, is equivalent to a common dioptrick Telescope of above 15 or 16 Feet long •, that is, magnifies as much, and is said to fhew Ob- jects as diftinctly too ; but of this last I am not so certain. And the Proportion of the mag- nifying Power of any one of them, will be as the Square of the focal Distance of the larger Concave is to the Rectangle under the focal Distance of the lefTer Concave and the Eye-Glafies. In Dr BefaguHer''s appendix to the Second Edition of Dr David Gregory's Elements of Ca- topricks and Dioptricks } there is not only a more particular Defcription of the several Parts of

this Refle&ing Telescope, for the fake of those who have a Mind to try at making it, but also two Tables for their Construction of other Dimenfions, which the Doctor received from Mr Hadley, which being curious and useful, and the Book fcarce, I shall here fubjoin,

The following Dimenfions in Fig. 15. are- each a fourth Part of a Telescope of 12 Inches Fig. 15. fbcal Length. B B is a large concave Speculum, and AG is it's focal Length. F F is a fmaller concave Speculum, it's focal Length is I D. The Breadth F F is about T 'v of an Inch wider than the Hole C C in the larger Speculum. N, the first Eye-Glass, is Piano- Convex. S, the second Eye-Glass, is Piano-Convex, or rather a Menifcus. M is a Plate with a small Mole in it to exclude all foreign Light, T ' F of an Inch. RR is the limiting Circle or Diaphragm? as it is fometimes called. The Arrows are the fucceffive Images of any Object.

TABLE I.

If AG be 3 Inches, or 12 Inches, of 18 Inches, or 27 Inches ; and the Charge or Power of magnifying is 12 % or 13 ; or 36, 49, 66? all correfpondently taken. Then will BB be 0.7, or 2, or 2.7, or 3.7. ID, 0.82, or 2.32, or 3.22, or 4.22. F F, 0.315, or 0.56, or 0.7, or 0.88. C C, 0.295, or 0.54, or 0.68, or o 86. The focal Distance of N, 1.48, or 3.27, or 3.97, or 4.91. The focal Length of S, 0.7, or 1.3, or 1.54, or 1.85. AD* 3.96, or 14.66, or 21.69, or S 1 -9' AN, 0.5, or 0.7, or 0.75, or 0.8. N S, 1.4, or 2.6, or 3.08, or 3.7. S M, 0.45, or 0.76, or 0.88, or 1.0. RR, 0.2, or 0.37, or 0.44, or 0.53.

Note, Thefe ExpRestions of Inches and Decimal Parts are for the Day, where Objects are to be magnified but a little, in proportion to what the heavenly Bodies may be at Night* for which the following Table gives the Proportions.

TABLE II.

If A G be either 12 Inches, or 18 Inches, or 27 Inches ; and the Charge be 70, or 95, or 128 Inches. Then must B D be 2, or 2.7, or 3.75. ID, 1.74, or 2.36, or 3.22. FF, 0.4, or 0.47, or 0.56. CC, 0.38, or 0.45, or 0.54. N, 2.29, or 2.79, or 3.47. The Focus of S, 0.87, or 1.03, or 1.25. AD, 13.95, or 20.64, or 30.56. AN, 0.7, or 0.75, or 0.8. NS, 1.74, or 2.06, or 2.5. SM, 0.47, or 0.56, or 0.7. RR, 0.25, or 0.29, or 0.36.

Note, The Breadth in the Hole of the Plate M mufl be -^ of an Inch. And the vary- ing the Length of A N, the Diflance of the first Eye-Glass behind the fore Surface of the Speculum B B, alters the other Proportions but a little •, so that if the Thicknefs of the Speculum, or other Circumftances require it, there is no need to keep exactly to the Num- bers here fet down for it.

The Proportions of the fever al Parts of Gregory 's Reflecting Telescope as computed by Mr Had- ley, Algebraically exprejfed ; with numerical Examples, when the focal Length is either 40 Inches ', 60 Inches , or 90 Inches.

Let (Fig. 16.) AD reprefent the common Axis of the Telescope, and two concave Spe- Fig. 16. culums BB, F F ; suppose A G the focal Length of the Speculum B B, whose proper Aper- ture B B, and Charge, are likewise known. Let C C be the Breadth of the Perforation. F F the Breadth of the fmaller Speculum, equal to, or a little greater than C C. I it's Focus. N the Eye-Glass. N A it's focal Length, and M a Plate with a small Hole to exclude all foreign Light •, and let it be required to take in at one View so much of the Object as may appear through the Telescope, under a given Angle, viz. C N C. To do this with the Lofs of the fewefl Rays of Light near the Axis ; the Proportions mould be as follow.

Call AG, a 3 B B, b? the Power or Charge m ; the Ratio of twice the Semi-tangent of

C C

the apparent Angle of Comprehenfion required C N C to the Radius -, that is, — — = n.

Then H H, the Breadth of the Image of so much of the Object as is feen at once, will

The Breadth of the Hole in M = If a double Eye-Glass be used with this Telescope to prevent the Objects being coloured near the Edges of the Area, the Image of the Object must be thrown back by the fmaller Concave, so far behind the great Speculum, that there may be Room enough to place the first Eye-Glass N at a fufficient Distance before it, and then the Algebraick Expreflions of the several Parts become much more complex, and so are omitted j and I have added the fol- lowing numerical Proportions for the following Sizes.

For the Nigbt.

If A G be either 40 Inches, or 60 Inches, or 90 Inches, and the anfwerable Powers be cither 172, or 234, or 317, then will

the Focal length

In the Remarks of Dr Smith** Opticks, pag. 104, 105. are to be found two TabJes of the Dimenfions, and magnifying Powers of some of the Gregorean Reflecting Telescopcs, cal- culated by the Doftor, and founded upon the following Dimenfions of one of Mr Short's beft Reflecting Telescopes of this kind, viz.

The focal Distance of the larger Speculum — —

It's Breadth or Aperture — — — — —

Focal Distance of the leffer Speculum — — —

It's Breadth — — — — — — .

Breadth of the Hole in the larger Speculum —

Distance between the leffer Speculum and the next Eye-Glass

Distance between the two Eye-Glafles — — &lt; —

Focal Distance of the Eye-Glass next the Metals — «

Focal Distance of the Eye-Glass next the Eye — - —

The first of which is as follows :

Note. In the first Table, C T at the Head of the first Column is the focal Distance of the great Speculum. C x is the Distance of the second Image of the Object from the great Spe- culum. T c is the Distance of the lefier Speculum from the Focus of the greater, c t is the focal Distance of the leffer Speculum. C A half the Breadth of the greater Speculum, viz. the Chord of half it's Arch, c a or C B the Breadth of half the leffer Speculum, which is equal to half the Breadth of the Hole in the greater Speculum, x I is the focal Distance of a fingle Eye-Glass, that will magnify as much as the two Eye-Glasses, suppose m, n, of the Telescope. r is the Ratio of the Distance of the Place of the second Image from the leffer Speculum to T c.

The other Tables, with two more for Mr Cajfegrairi 's Reflecting Telescope, I mail not infert here.

If several Telescopes of the fame Kind have nearly the fame Length, or the fame magni- fying Powers, though of different Kinds; those are the beft of their Kind by which you can read the fame print at the greateft Distance, when that print is equally enlightened.

The beft of these Kinds of Telescopes that have been hitherto made has been by Mr Short. He has made fix with glass Speculums quick filver'd behind, which fhew the Image very di- ftinclly, as the late Mr Maclaurin fays, three of 15 Inches focal Distance, and three of 9 Inches. The prefent Duke of Argyle had one of the 15 Inch ones, by which it is eafy to read in the Pbilofopbical TranfacJions at the Distance of 230 Feet; and with one of the 9 Inch ones at the Distance of 1 38 Feet. With another of these, at another Time, and with a fmaller Print, you may read at the Distance of 125 Feet. He has also made these Telescopes with metaline Speculums, which are very good. He has [made some of 2 Inches and 6 Tenths focal Distance ; others of 4, 6. 9, and 15 Inches. By those of 4 Inches the Satellites of Ju- piter may be ktn very well, and the Pbilofopbical TranfacJions may be read at 125 Feet Di- ftance. By those of 6 Inches focal Distance you may read at 160 Feet Distance. By those of 9 Inches at 120 Feet. By those of 15 Inches focal Distance you may read the said Tranfac- tions at the Distance of 500 Feet, and by it the five Satellites of Saturn have been feen toge- ther, which Mr CaJJini had fometimes feen with a 17 Foot Refracting Telescope. See more particularly Mr Maclaurin % Letter to Dr Smith, dated at Edinburgh, Dec. 28. 1734, to be Jeen at Page 80. of the Remarks, at the End of Dr Smith's, second Volume of Opticks.

The first Thought we find in print concerning a Reflecting Telescope, is that of Dr James Gregory, in his Optica Promota, publifhed in the Year 1663; who at Page 93, 94,-pro- pofes a Cata-Dioptrical Telescope, in order to make Telescopes fhorter, and more handy ; and this is the Defcription of it by himfelf.

Let ADC E (Fig. 17.) be a parabolick concave Speculum most exquifitely polifhed, in whose Focus C is placed a small eliiptick concave Speculum, having a common Focus, and common Axis with the concave parabolick Speculum, and let it be fixed in that Situation. Now the said Focus of that eliiptick Speculum must be very near to it's vertex, and the other Focus of it must be very far from the fame at F, in the common Axis produced beyond the parabolick Speculum •, and through the Vertex of the parabolick Speculum must be made a round Hole M N, in which Hole must be placed a Tube, having the fame Axis with the Speculums, and big enough to receive the Rays of a vifible Point or Object, reflected from the eliiptick concave Speculum •, and let it be continued to L very near to F, and at L let a Lens of cryftal Convex towards the Speculums be placed, with the Convexity of a Conoid, and the Denfity of the Cryftalline (of the Eye), whose exterior Focus must be at F, and which must be plane towards the Eye, and likewise have the fame common Axis as the Spe- culums and the Tube. This will be the Way to make an excellent Telescope for purblind Eyes ; for distant Objects feen through the Tube, will appear diftinctly magnified very near in the Ratio of the Distances of the Vertexes from the common Focus, and enlightened in the fame Manner as a vifible Object would be, when feen under such an Angle ; provided the Diameter of what produces the last Image be big enough to fuffer the Uvea of the Eye to be filled with the Rays. And how that may done, we have taught in the Scholium of the 51ft of this Book, fays the Doclor. But it is plain, by what Dr Gregory has here said, and by the Date of his Book, viz. in 1663, that he most certainly was the first Hinter and Founder of such an Instrument, thereby giving Occafion to others to purfue and improve upon his

Original, with such Alterations or Additions, as would beft make the Thing fuccced in actual Practice.

Sir Ifaac Newton himfelf tells us, in the Philosophical Tranfaclions, Numb. 80. that he had confidered this Telescope of Dr Gregory's, as above defcribed in the Optica Proviota - y and this was not 'till the Year 1668. That he refolved, before he attempted any thing in the Practice, to alter Dr Gregory's Design, and place the Eye-Glass at the iide of the Tube, rather than in the middle.

Dr Gregory never brought his Telescope to any Degree of Perfection, but owning his Want of Skill in Mechanicks, only propofes it for others to execute ; he had, indeed, an Object-Speculum of Metal ground to a Segment of a Sphere, and a little Concave, as well as a little Convex-Speculum, ground by Rives and Cox, two Optick Glass-Gtindcrs of Lon- don, famous in those Days. But because the Object-Metal was not well polifhed, he only made some imperfect Trials, not so much as even fitting the Speculums and Eye-Glass in- so a Tube •, and being difcouraged, as much because he could not have the Object-Metal ground into a parabolick Concave, as because that which he trird was not well polifhed, he gave over the Thoughts of bringing such Telescopes into Use. See his Letter to Mr Collins* written from Si Andrews, Sept. 23, 1672, to be found in Dr Defaguliers's Appendix to Dr David Gregory's Opticks, at Numb. 4.

Of late Years several Perfons have endeavoured to make large Telescopes of this Kind, but I never heard they ever fucceeded ; and I must confefs, that these Instruments, though they have the Advantage of magnifying, and being more manageable, yet do not fhew the Objects so diftinctly and bright (which are the two chief Things for which all Telescopes are Used, and valuable), as refracting Telescopes do, which are longer •, besides the Trouble of making these Instruments, hazard of fpoiling them, and their Expence, are Confederations of some Weight •, nor can they be used, in some aftronomical Obfervations, where a Mi- crometer is neceffary, because a Micrometer cannot eafily be applied to one of them j tho\ indeed, there is a Contrivance to do it in the Philosophical Tranfaclions. Numb. 475.

CHAP. VII.

Of Sir Ifaac Newton'j RefleSling Telescope^ as improved by Mr Hadley, and prefented by him to the Royal Society.

The Inflrument (Fig. 18.) confifts of a metaline Speculum, about fix Inches in Dia- meter ; the Radius of the Sphere on which it's concave Surface was ground is 10 Feet 5 4 Inches, and it's focal Length is 62 ~ Inches. The back has a hollow Screw made at it's Centre to receive the End of a Handle which is fcrewed on wherever the Metal is to be moved, in order to avoid fullying it's polifhed Surface by handling. The Object-Metal A is placed in one End of an octangular Tube B B about 6 Feet long, dyed black on the Irr- side ; about 6 or 7 Inches in Length of the three uppermost Sides of the Tube C towards that End at which the Metal is placed, are feperated from the Rest, and open with two Hinges to make room for the Metal to be put in, or taken out ; the End of the Tube is clofed by an octangular Piece of Board D, which has an opening about 4 of an Inch broad, from the Top, down to a little below the Center, to give room for the before- mentioned Handle, when the Object-Metal is lifted into, or out of, the Tube ; at other Times it is clofed with a Aiding Shutter ; the Metal is placed so as to have it's Axis coincide with that of the Tube, by the Means of three small Buttons fixed to the Infide of the Tube, having their hinder Ends all in the fame Plane to which this Axis is Perpendicular ; two of these appear at a a, the third being at the middle of the Bottom of the Tube, is not feen ; the forefide of the Metal Rests against these Buttons in three Points of it's Circumference, nearly equidistant from each other, and is held in them by three Screws, one of which ap- pears at b, which run through the octangular Board at the End of the Tube, and bear against the Back of the Metal, in three Points, which directly anfwer those three on the forefide, with juft so much Force as is requifite to keep it fteady in it's place -, they must not be fcrewed harder against the Metal for fear of bending it, which, though it is half an Inch in Thicknefs, a very little Force is fufHcient to do : when the Inflrument is not used, these Screws are loofened, and the Object-Metal is taken out and laid by to prevent it's tarnifhing.

The oval Plane (Fig. 19.) is compofed of a Plate of the fame Metal with the great Speculum, about T * T or ~ of an Inch in Thicknefs, foldercd on the Back to another of Brass ; it's Breadth is fomething less than half an Inch, and is in the Ratio to it's Length, As t is' to the square Root of 2, or as the Side of a Square is to it's Diagonal 5 at one End of the Oval, the Brass Plate projects a little beyond the other, and has a Screw cut through it in that part, as also another directly against the Centre of the forefide •, the other End is cyphered away on the backfide, that it may intercept as few of the Rays in their Paffage towards the Object-Metal as poffible. The two Screw-Holes in the back (Figure) ferve to fix this Oval A, to a Brass Arm B, which is faftened at the other End into a Slider EE (Fig. 18, 19.); Fig. 18, 19: this Slider is of an equal Thicknefs with the Side of the Tube, and has a Groove G G (Fig. 18.) cut for it in that side parallel to the Axis, and long enough to give room for it's Motion, to fet the Speculums at. the different Distances, which the several Eye-GlafTes re- quire ; it rells on the Infide against two thin Ledges, faftened within the Tube along the Sides of the Groove •, on the Outfide, it is kept in it's place, by a Aiding Shutter not ex- panded in the Figure. In the middle (Fig. 19.) it has a cylindrical Cavity D, whose Axis is Fig. 19. perpendicular to it's inner and outer Surfaces •, each of the Boxes in which the Eye-GlafTes are contained, is fitted to this Cavity -, the beforementioned Brass Arm is fixed into the In- side of this Slider, towards the End fartheft from the Object-Metal •, it rifes perpendicularly for about two Inches, and is made flat, so as to turn one Edge to the Rays which come from the Object ; about b it is bent forwards, and flatted the other way, so that when the back of the oval Plane is held flat to it by the two Screws c c, the Axis of the cylindrick Cavity may fall on the Centre of it's forefide, inclined to it's Surface in an Angle fome- thing less than 45 Degrees ; this Angle is brought to be exact by two very small Screws i r, whose Threads take hold in the flatted End of the Brass Arm, and their Points bearing against the back of the Oval, raife one End of it a little from the flat of the Arm. The Spe- culums are fa at their due Distance by turning a long Screw C C, for which there is a Nut lodged in the Slider at g ; the Screw is kept from moving backwards or forwards, when it is turned, by a Brass Plate F, which is to be fixed to the flat End of the Side of the Tube, and taken off at Pleafure. Each of the Eye-Glass Boxes H, has a Screw on the outward End to fallen to it a Bowl or Dilh I, to receive the Ball of the Eye, and guard it from external Light.

On the Top of the Tube a common Dioptrick Telescope H is fixed upon two small Pillars, about i3 Inches long, with it's Axis parallel to that of the Tube ; with two small Hairs in the common Focus of the Object and Eye Glastls ; eroding one another in it's Axis.

There are three convex Eye-Glasses belonging to the Inftrumcnt •, the first, or shalloweft, has it's focal Distance of abou: \ of an Inch ; the second of ^ ; and the deepeft of ~ •, or fomething less. When the fiifl of these is 11 fed with the Instrument, it magnifies about i88 s or 190 Times in Diameter ; with the second, about 208, and with the third about 228., or 230 : Each of these GlalTes has placed in that Focus neaRest the Oval, a Circle to determine the part of the Object feen at one View ; and in the other Focus towards the Eye, a Brass Plate with a little Hole in the middle, to let no Light pass to the Eye from the Infide of the Tube, but what comes from the Oval : besides these three convex, there are two con- cave Eye-Glasses with which it magnifies about 200, or 220 times ; and also a Set of three convexes, which turn it into a Day Telescope, magnifying about 125 times. The Aperture is limitted by a Circle of Card or Pafte-board placed before the Object-Metal in the Tube. To vary the Apertures, there are three of these Circles, and the Apertures altered by them are five Inches and a half, five Inches, and four and an half, though for some Objects, the whole Tube may be left open.

Thus far is the particular Defcription of the Body and main Parts of the Telescope, as js to be found in the Philosophical Tranfaftions, Numb. 376. As to the particular Defcrip- tion of the wooden Support to direct the Tube to any Object which is there given I shall omit, the Figure thereof being fufficient to fatisfy all those who have not such a Telescope, and have no Defire of making it ; besides, it is in any one's Power almost to invent a Sup- port for the Body of the Instrument, and that, perhaps, different from this here, of Mr Hadley's ; there is no great ingenuity in doing it.

Mr Hadley tells us, this Instrument when tried at an Object feen in the Day-Time, feems to bear an Aperture of five Inches and an half, with the deepeft of the aforementioned Eye-GlafTes, as well as the common Telescopes do the usual Charge and Aperture given to them, except that in these the Objects appear a little brighter.

Drs Pound and Bradley fay, that this Telescope will bear such a Charge as to make it magnify the Object as many Times as Mr Huygens's dioptrick Telescope, the focal Length of whose Object-Glass is 123 Feet, and that it reprefents Objects as diftinct, though not al- together so clear and bright.

1 have always thought, that these catadioptrick Telescopes of both Kinds, do reprefent Objects more obfeurely than refracting Telescopes, though indeed in this the Newtonian one has the Advantage of Dr Gregory's ; and that they will always do fo, unlefs a reflecting Sub- ftance for a concave can be found, that will reflect as much Light as Glass tranfmits, which I take to be impoffible. For I ever faw the Image of an Object in the Focus of a concave Speculum more indiftinct and obfeure than the Object itfelf, (which argues the Lofs of Rays

by the Reflection) or than an Object appearing by the Reflection of a plane Speculum •, whereas an Object feen through a Glass-Lens will appear more enlightened and bright than even it does with the naked Lye.

_^ Mr Huygens fays, that he had never found any Speculums that had so good a Polifh as Glass ; and so fays Sir Ifaac Newton, and accordingly he recommends glass Speculums quick- filvered over, as preferable to metalline ones.

In the second Volume of Dr Smith's Opticks, beginning at pag. 363. there is a Reflecting Telescope of Sir Ifaac Newton's Form, made, and defcribed by Samuel Molyneux, Efq; and fent by him as a Prefent to his Majefty John V. King of Portugal, being or ^a much Ampler Conftruction than that of Mr Hadley's, and magnifies as much, and as diftinctly, as a Refrac- ting Telescope of 35 or 40 Feet. So fays Dr Smith.

And at ^ Numb. 918, pag. 36;. there foiiows a ver-y Arrange and Angular Affcrtion of Dr Smith's, viz. he fays, that one's Imagination is always milled in comparing the Effects of this Instrument with Refracting ones of that Length. For although (fayslie) by the Mi- nutenefs of the Parts viable in the Object observed ; as also, by the Proportions between the focal Distance of the Eye-Glass made use of, and the focal Difbance of the great Speculum it is demonftrable, that the Diftinctnefs and magnifying Power thereof exceeds that of a Re- fracting Telescope of 35 Feet, yet the Spedtator will always fancy that the Refractor has the Advantage of this Instrument. And again, that it will be certainly found to be but a Deception, and probably an univerfal one to all Perfons. Now, is not the Doctor here ra- ther deceived himfelf. For to prefer optical Demonftrations, founded upon dubious Princi- ples (which I think his are, about the apparent Diftinction, and brightnefs of Objects) ra- ther than to the Experience of all Men,, is too bold an Affertion. And one would be almost led to believe, that the Doctor would have Reflecting Telescopes, right or wrong, to be bet- ter than Refracting ones, as to the Diftinctnefs of the Objects appearing throu°h them.

CHAP. VIII.

A Defcription of the RefieEiing Telescope, made by Sir Ifaac Newton

himfelf.

E made two small ones, with an Object metal fpherically concave, the second being better than the other ; the word of which he defcribes in the Philosophical Tranfaflions, (at Numb. 80.) and the other he fent to the Royal Society. This worft was not long ago to be feen at Mr Heath's, the Mathematical Instrument Maker in the Strand, having upon it, wrote with his own Hand, Ifaac Newton. Fig. 20. A B (Fig. 20.) is the concave Speculum, of which the Radius or Semidiameter is 12 \ or

13 Inches. CD is another metalline Speculum, whose Surface is flat, and the Circumference oval. G D is an iron Wire, holding a Ring of Brass, in which the Speculum C D is fixed. F is a small Eye-Glass, fiat above, and convex below, of the twelfth Part of an Inch Radius, if not less ; forafmuch as the Metal collects the Sun's Rays at 6 4. Inches distance from it's vertex. G G G the fore-part of the Tube is fattened to a brafs Ring H I to keep it immove- able. P CMC L is the hind-part of the Tube fattened to another brals Ring P Q^ O is an iron Hook fattened to the Ring P Q_, and furnifhed with a Screw N. Thereby to advance or draw Back the hind-part of the Tube, and so by that means to put the Speculums to their due Distance. M QjG is a crooked Iron fuftaining the Tube, and fattened by the Nail R to the Ball and Socket S, whereby the Tube may be turned every way. The Centre of the flat Speculum C D must be placed in the fame Point of the Tube's Axis V T where falls the Perpendicular to this Axis drawn to the fame, from the Centre of the Eye-Glass, which Point is here marked at T.

The Tube of this Telescope is open at the End which refpects the Object, the other End is clofe, where the said Concave is laid. The flat oval Speculum is near the open End, made as small as may be,- the less to obftruct the Entrance of the Rays of Light, where is a little Hole furnifhed with the said small plano-convex Eye-Glass. So that the Rays coming from the Object do first fall on the Concave placed at the Bottom of the Tube, and are thence re- flected towards the other End of it, where they meet with the flat Speculum obliquely pofited, by the Reflection of which they are directed to the little plano-convex Glass ; and so to the Spec- tator's Eye, who looking downward fees the Object which the Telescope is turned to.

This Telescope will magnify as to Surface about 38 Times, viz. as much as a refracting Te- lefcope of 2 Feet, and by it you may read in the Philosophical TranfcMiuns, at the Distance of too or 120 Feet.

Sir

Of MICRO SCO P ES. z 99

Sir Ifaac Newton, in his Opticks, page 95, gives another Defcript4on of a Reflecting Te-lefcope, which fee there.

A little after Sir Ifaac Newton had fent his Telescope to the Royal Society, Mr Oldenburgh, the Secretary, wrote him a Letter of Thanks, to which Sir Ifaac 'Newton made Anfwer in 167', giving a farther Account of the Inflrument.

About this Time Dr James Gregory having an Account of Sir Ifaac Newton's Telescope^ wrote his Thoughts about it to Mr Collins, in a Letter from Aberdeen, dated Auguft 6. 1672. In which he gives the Preference to Sir Ifaac's Telescope, above that which he defcribed in the Optica Promota, in one rcfpecl, but thinks his own better in another. At the fame Time one Mr Cajfegraine, a French Man, publifhed a Defcription of a Catadioptrick Telescope, as his own Invention, which he pretended had been prior to Sir Ifaac's Telescope. Sir Ifaac contrived his in the Year 1666, and executed it in the Year 1670, or 1671. And indeed Dr James Gregory his before either of them, viz. before 1663. This Telescope of Mr Cafjegraine's dif- fers nothing from the Doclor's, excepting that he would have the small Metal to be convex* whereas in that of the other it is concave ; but I never heard that an Instrument of this Kind was ever yet made. See an Account of it, in the Philosophical Tranfaclions, at Numb. 83. In the second Volume of Dr Smith's Opticks, amongft the Remarks, page 105. he fays, that what Trials have been made of Mr Cajfegraine' 's Form he knows not ; but it appears by a Table there fetdown, for the Parts of this Telescope, compared to another there let down for the Parts of Gregory's Telescope, that the former has the Advantage, oeing fhorter by twice the focal Distance of the leffer Speculum, and yet magnifies more.

Sir Ifaac Newton fays, the Telescope he made, was but 6 Inches long, bears fome- thing more than an Inch Aperture, with a plano-convex Eye-Glass, which is 4 or 4- Part of an Inch in depth, so that it magnifies about 40 Times in Diameter, which he thinks is more than any 6 Foot Tube can do with Diftinctnefs ; but (fays he) by reason of bad Materials, and for want of a good Polifh, it reprefents Things not so diftinctly as a 6 Foot Tube will do-, yet he thinks it will difcover as much as any 3 or 4 Foot Tube, efpecially if those Objects be luminous ; and fays, he has feen with ft Jupiter diftinctly round, and his Satellites and Venus horned. He doubts not but in Time a 6 Foot Reflecting Telescope of this fort may be made, which will perform as much as any 60 or 100 Feet Refracting Telescope. That a Refracting Telescope, made of the puRest Glass, exquifitely polifhed with the beft Figure any Geometrician has or can defign, would fcarce perform as much more as an ordinary good Te- lefcope of the fame Length, 13 c. This is part of a Letter written by Sir Ifaac Newton, from Trinity College, Cambridge, dated Feb. 23. 166,;. to a Friend. See page 259. ofDr DefagU' lier's Appendix to Dr David Gregory's Elements of Opticks.



C H A P. IX.
Of MICRO SCOPES.

THESE most pleafing and useful Instruments for enlarging and viewing very small Ob- jects, and their Parts, not perceivable by the naked Eye (by reason of their Smallnefs, and Deficiency in reflecting Light from them to the Eye) and thereby difcovering many fur- prizing Kinds of minute Animals, wonderful in Shape and Motion, as well as some of the Texture, Contrivance, and Structure of natural Bodies, and their Parts, are of two Sorts, viz. fingle, which confifl of one very small Lens, or Globe of Glass or Water, put near to the Eye, or compound ones, confifting of two or three Lenses.

Mr Huygens, in his little Tract upon Microfcopes, in his Dioptricks, beginning at page 221, fhews, how to make the small Glass Globes for fingle Microfcopes, by melting powdered Glass in the Flame of a Lamp, which will run into various small Globes, and making Choice of such as he found beft, which he put into small round Holes, made in a very thin Copper Plate, punched with a Needle, and those he liked beft he fixed therein ; thus eafily making fe- veral Microfcopes. The well figuring, and polifhing such very small Globes, being much more owing to Chance than Design.

Mr Stephen Gray used Drops of Water, placed near the Eye, for fingle Microfcopes. See the Philosophical Tranfaclions, Numb. 221, 223.

Mr Leewenhoeck of Delft in Holland, was doubtlefs the greateft Judge of the beft Kind of Microfcopes, as well as the greateft Mafter in theUseof the Instrument, and has obliged the World with the greateft Difcoveries by it of any Man that I know, yet he prefers fingle Microfcopes to compound ones, as may be feen in the Account of Martin Folkes, Efq-, given of Mr Leewenhoeck' s Glafles, which by his Will he left to the Royal Society. See Numb. 380. Aljb a further Account of Mr Leewenhoeck^ Microfcopes, by the 'ingenious Mr Henry Barker % is to be feen at Numb. 458. of the Philosophical Tranfaclions for the Year 1 740. This great

Man preferred Diftinction to great Degrees of magnifying, in which he mod certainly was right •, for what signifies augmenting the Bulk or an Objedt, if it and it's Parts cannot be diftinctly and clearly feen •, confequently, those are the bed Microfcopes, whether iingle or double, thac do this the beft. And within these ioo Years there have been a vaft Variety of these Instruments made (fome fingle, some double) by ingenious Workmen in England, Italy, Holland, &c. To many, and much difperfed, that few Perfons can really tell which are beft. Many of them may be good enough, as to the Perfection of the Glalfes, but they differ in the lefTer effential Contrivances, viz. to move them to the Object, to caft Light upon, and to hold the Object, with the greatcft Eafe and belt Convenience.

The Lenses of fingle Microfcopes are from /,,- of an Inch, to in Diameter ; the man- ner of making them by one Mr Butterfield, of the Bignefs of great Pins Heads, or less, is to be feen in the Philosophical Tranfaclions, Numb. 141. Dr Hook used to take a clear Piece of Glass, and draw it out into long Threads in a Lamp, then he held these Threads in the Flame 'till they run into round Globules hanging to the End of the Threads •, and having fixed the Globules with Wax to the End of a Stick, so that the Threads flood upwards, he ground the Ends of the Threads upon a Whetftone, and polifhed them upon a fmooth metal Plate, with a little Putty. Mr Gray makes them fomewhat otherwise, See the Philo- fophical Tr an fail ions, Numb. 221, 223, who fays, That small round Globules magnified and fliewed Objects clearer than Hemifpheres. Dr Hook fays, he made use of a double Mi- crofcope in most of his Obfervations. See the Preface to his Micrography : and to enlighten his Objects as much as poffible, he made choice of a Room with but one Window towards the South, where at the Distance of 3 or 4 Feet from the Window he placed his double Microfcope upon a Table, and by a Glass Globe full of Water, and a thick plano-convex Lens he threw the Light upon the Object ; or when the Sun fhone, he placed a Piece of oiled Paper very near the Object, and with a very large Burning-Glass he threw the -Sun's Rays upon the Paper, so as that a great Quantity of them might be tranfmitted through it to the Object •, but the Paper being fubject to take Fire, if the Focus of the Rays fell upon it, inftead thereof he put a Piece of plane Glass, not polifhed, but only rough ground with fine Sand, which when warmed gradually would endure much more Heat than the oiled Paper; and so would fuffer more Light to pass through it to the Object ; and by this means fays he, the Sun's Light was more equally diffused upon the Parts of the Object than the Sun's direct Light. In the Night-Time he illuminated his Object with the Light of a Lamp, first re- fracted through his Globe full of Water, or clear Erine, which refracts more than Water, and then collected into a fmaller Spot upon the Object by a plano-convex Lens. He also placed a polifhed concave Metal on the Side of the Lamp opposite to the Globe, to reflect part of the Rays upon the Globe-, and thus he fays he could illuminate an Object with a small Lamp as much as it would well bear, and he drew most of the Reprefentations of Objects by the Light of his Lamp.

Note, A double Microfcope contrived for viewing Objects by Sun-fhine is called by fome of the Moderns, a folar Microfcope ; and without difpute, Objects viewed in Sun-fhine will be beft perceived and distinguished, provided the Sun-fhine be not too great, or the Eye dazzled by the Glare.

I have already hinted, that the World is now full of Microfcopes, some better, fome worfe. Mr Wilfon's Pocket Microfcope defcribed in the Philosophical franf anions, Numb. 281. Mr Campani's and Divini's. Mr Leuwenhoeck's. Dr Hook's. Mr Marfhal's double Microfcope, difcribed in Dr Harris's, Lexicon. Mr Culpepper's and Scarlat's, Mr Muffchen- broeck's, &c. have been reckoned to be very good. And some of the beft Writings upon the Use of the Microfcope are, 1. Dr Hook's Micrography, in Folio, printed at London, in the Year 1667.

2. Mr Leuwenhoeck's various Tracts, viz. his Arcana Nature detecla, in Quarto, printed at Delft, in the Year 1695-, his Continuatio Arc anorum Nature detefiorum, in Quarto, in the Year 1697 ; his Arcana ope £s? beneficio exquifitiffimorum Microfcopiorum detella, in Quarto, in the Year 1696 ; his Continuatio epijiolarum datarum ad longe celeberrimam regiam Societa- tem Londinenfem, printed at Leyden, in the Year 1696, in Quarto.

3. John Grendel's Micrographia Curiofa, in Quarto, printed at Noremburgh, in the Year
1687.

4. Francifcus Fontana's Obfervationes Celejlium Terrejiriumque Rerum.

.5. Malpighius's Anatomia Plant arum ; his 'TracJatus de ovo incubato, de Bombyce, de Vi-
cerum Struclura.

6. Bonnani's Micrographia Curiofa, in Quarto, printed at Rome, in the Year 1691.

7. Mr Baker's Treatife of the Microfcope, printed at London, in the Year 1741. There are many others who have given microfcopical Obfervations ; in the Philosophical Tranfac- tions, and other Tracts, too long to mention. Sir Ifaac Newton, in the Philosophical Tran* factions, Numb. 80, hints at a Reflecting Microfcope, and Dr Smith in his Opticks, gives the Dimenfions for making one ; but I have heard the Contrivance will not do well.

CHAP.

A Short Account of some Instruments^ &c, 301

CHAP. X.

A Short Account of some Instruments either of less general Use y whose full Defcriptions are too long to infert in this Appendix, or such as with some Alterations or Additions of Parts are already defcrtbed in this Book.

I. A Meridian Tele/cope.

THIS is a Telescope fixed at right Angles to an Axis, and turned about it In the Plane of the Meridian. Dr Halley had one of these ; another of them was contrived by Mr Cotes, and the prefent Duke of Argyle has a very good one. See their Defcription in Dr Smith's Opticks, Vol. II. Book iii. Chap. 6. The Uie of these Instruments is for find- ing Time, by obferving when the Sun or any Star has equal Altitudes on each Side of the Meridian ; as alio for finding the Time of their Appulfes to the Meridian. And thence by means of a Clock, and the computed right Afcenfion of the Sun at that Time by the Clock, or that of a Star, we have the Difference between a Day reckoned by the Clock, and that of the Sun or Stars. Dr Halley at fii if made all his Obfervations of the right Afcenfions of the Moon by such an Instrument ; his Telescope was 5 t Feet long, and the tranfverfe Axis above three Feet.

There are other Instruments that will do this, one of which is defcribed in a little Folid Tract of Mr Molyneux's, printed at London in the Year 1700, entituled Sciothericum Tele- fcopicum : being a large horizontal Dial with a Telescope adapted to it. Such an Inftru- ment was made in London, by Mr Richard Whitehead, in the Year 1685. This Instrument gives the Hour, almolt by Inflection, by a Star, as well as by the Sun ; it has alsothis Ad- vantage, that when the Sun is over-clouded fb as juft to be feen faintly, and cafts no Sha- dow at all upon a Dial, yet if the Sun be in the kaft perceivable by the Eyej the Time may be exactly told by him. Thi Contrivance in brief is thus. It is a very large Brass horizontal Dial made to the Latitude ot the Place it is to be used in, with a strong double Gnomon, calling the Morning Shadow from it's Western Edge, and the Afternoon Shadow from it's Ealtern Edge, and the Noon Shadow by it's Thicknefs ; it has two Pair of Sights, or Rulers, one Pair ferving for the Morning, or for Stars that are to the East of the Meri- dian •, and the other Pair to ferve in the Afternoon, or for Stars on the Western Side of the Meridian ; each of these Pair of Sights confifls of two moveable Rulers, called the horizon- tal Ruler, and the Gnomonick one, by Mr Mclyneux ; which Rulers are so adapted, as that their two Edges which are next to the Gnomon, are always in the fame Plane with each other •, and at the Time of Obfervation, that they both may be in the fame Plane with their correfpondent Edge of the Gnomon •, and on the Style-Ruler are fixed Telescopick Sights with the Crofs-Hairs in their proper Place. The horizontal Ruler turns exactly about the Centre of the Hour- Lines ; and to the other End of it, the Style-Ruler is adapted by means of a Joint, so as to have two Motions, the one upwards or downwards, and another East- ward and Wcftard, according as it follows the horizontal Ruler.

II. An Equatorial Telescope.

The ingenious Mr Short (in the Philosophical Tranfatlions, at Numb. 493, for the Year 1749.) gives the Delcription and Uses of an Instrument confifting of a Combination of feve- ral Circles, with two Spirit-Levels, and a Reflecting Telescope, which will ferve for a Dial ; an equal Altitude Instrument, a Tranfit Instrument, a Theodolite, a Quadrant, an Azimuth Instrument, and a Level. He fays, he has made three of these Instruments, one of which he fold to Count Bentinck, for the Use of the late Prince of Orange. That he had the other two by him. That he docs not pretend to any thing new in the Combinations of the Circles of which the Instrument confifls. The fame C ombinations having several Times before been made by way of Dial •, but believes the putting so large a Telescope upon the Machinery, and applying it to the Uses he has done, is fomewhat new.

III. The Micrometer.

Any Micrometer, of which there are several Sorts, well made, may be fufficient to mea- fure (mall Angles fubtended by remote Objects at the naked Eye ; to do which is the chief Bufineis of this Infirument.

4 I The

30Z A fhort Account of fotne InstrumentS) Sec.

The old Micrometer of Mr Townley's, improved by Dr Hook (and long since defcribed in the Pbilofopbical Tranfaclions, Numb. 29.) and it's Ufcs in Numb. 25. appears to have been good, or elk Sir Ifaac Newton would not, at the Beginning of the third Book of his Matbe* matical Principles of Natural Philofophy, have ventured to fet down the Meafurcs of the Di- ftances of the Satellites of Jupiter, from Jupiter's Center, as taken by Mr Townhy with that Micrometer. This to me is a fufficient Proof of the Exactnefs of that old Inftrurrienc. As to Facility of Use, and some other leiler Advantages, other more modern Micrometers have been made and defcribed. And Dr Smith, in his Opticks, Vol. II. Chap. 8. Book 2 defcribes a Micrometer, which he calls one of the beft Sort. The Micrometer, and" it's Use is also treated of by Mr Auzont, a Frenchman •, by Mr Hevelius, in the Ac! a Eruditorum Anno 1708; by Mr Balthafaris, and others. Scarcely, in my Opinion, deferving a particu- lar Account here. What our Author and myfelf having already said upon thislnftrument appearing to me to be enough.

IV. Of Mr. GrahamV Aflronomical Sector. This Instrument is for obferving the Place of a Planet or Comer, by takin^ the Differences of it's right Afcenfion, and Declination, from those of a known fixed Star -,° when it cannot be done at all by a Micrometer, or not conveniently by a large Quadrant or Sextant, the Contriver in brief is thus. P&lt;atei. L et AI5 (Plate 2. Fig. 21.) reprefent an Arch of a Circle containing 10 or 12 Degrees,

F, g- 2I - having a long Plate C D for its Radius fixed to the middle of the Arch at D. Let this Radi- us be applied to the side of an Axis H F I, and be moveable about a Joint fixed to it at F so as the Plane of the Sector may be always parallel to the Axis H I, which being parallel to the Axis of the Earth, the Plane of the Sector will always be parallel to the Plane of fome Hour Circle. Let a Telescope C E be moveable about the Centre C of the Arch A B, from one end of it to the other, by turning a Screw at G, and let the Line of Sight be parallel to the Plane of the Sector ; then by turning the whole Instrument about the Axis H I, 'till the Plane of it fuccefilvely directed, first to one of the Stars, and then to another, it is eafy to move the Sector about the Joint F into such a Pofition, that the Arch AB when fixed, mall take in both Stars in their PaiTage by the Plane of it, if the Difference of their Declination does not exceed the Arch A B. Then having fixed the Plane of the Sector a little to the West- ward of both the Stars, move the Telescope C E by the Screw G, and obferve by a Clock the Time of each Tranfit over the crofs Hairs ; and also the Degrees and Minutes upon the Arch A B, cut by the Index at each Tranfit. Then is the Difference of the Arches, the Dif- ference of the Declinations, and by the Difference of the Times, we have the Difference of the right Afcenfions of the Stars* See a more particular Defcription of this Instrument in the ninth Chapter of the third Book of Dr Smith's Opticks, Vol. II.

V. Of Mr S'iffon's Theodolite.

This is certainly the beft, most complete, handfome, and well defigned Instrument pofli- ble, not only ferving as a Theodolite to take horizontal Angles, but likewise to take vertical Angles as a Quadrant •, and besides, may be used to take the Levels of Places, all with Speed, Eafe, and fufficient Exactnefs, for most of the common Purpofes for which it is de- defigned. See more particularly, concerning the fame, in Mr Lawrence's Surveying.

There is likewise another very good Theodolite, made by Mr Heath the Mathematical Inftru- ment Maker, whose Uses are to be feen in Hammond's Surveying, wrote in reality by the late very ingenious Mr Samuel Cunn (who being a Butcher, that kept a Butcher's Shop in New- port Market) was also a very great Mathematician : One of the beft Meafurers of Artificers Works, Surveyors of Land, and Expounders of Euclid, and Apollonius, in the World.

VI. Mr Barfton'j Univerfal Aflronomical Quadrant, (as he calls it) is an Instrument con- trived to take the Altitudes of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, without a vifible Horizon, with the greateft Accuracy, as well as Speed, as the Author himfelf will have it. The Inftru- ment confifts of a Semicircle, with half its Arch, divided into 90 Degrees, having a Tele- fcope upon the Diameter, and Wheel-work incloftd within the Instrument, which turns tw^ small Hands about, pointing at the Divisions of two circular Arches, on that Radius of the Quadrant, or rather Semicircle at right Angles to the Diameter of the Semicircle, which Divi- fions give the Degrees and Minutes of Altitude. The Contrivance of such a Quadrant to take Altitudes at once is not new. I heard of one, it is now almost fifty Years ago, which was then called by the Name of a Ketch-Quadrant. They were well known, and commonly talked of amongft a Society of ingenious Mathematicians, that met together once a Week in London, from the Year 17 10 to 1724. But I won't fay these Kerch-Quadrants were exactly the fame as to Structure, with those of Mr Barfton. His may poflibly be better. He got a Patent for the fole making and felling them •, and they were made and fold by Mr Jofcph Turner, z Watch-Maker in Hat ton Garden, London, with the Names of John Barfton and Jofeph Turner engraved upon the Limb.

VII.

A Short Account of some Instruments, &c. 303

VII. Dr Hook, Samuet Molyneux, Efq; and Dr Bradley, our pfefent Royal Profefibr of Aftronomy, had each an Instrument tor trying to difcover the annual Parallax of the fixed Stars. Mr Molyneux's Instrument was a Telelcope of 25 Feet long, with a square Tube, contrived to fwing in a vertical Pofition by two polifhed Cylinders fixed near the top of the Tube, so that their common Axis, if produced through the Tube, would pass at right An- cles to it's Axis through a Point near the Centre of the Object-Glass. When the Telescope turned upon those Cylinders, it's Axis of Vifion moved like a Pendulum in the Plane or the Meridian, while a fine long Wire hung down by the side of the Tube, whose Loop was put over one of the Cylinders, was gently ftretched by a Plummet immerfed in a Vessel of Wa- ter, defigned to retard it's Vibrations. The lower End of this Wire played gently against the' fmoo'th side of a flender Brass Plate fixed crofs-ways to the side of the Tube, so as to point Northwards and Southwards ; and in the middle of this Plate was punched a very fine round Hole, a little broader than the Thicknefs of the Wire. The Telescope was gradually moved upon it's Axis of Sufpcnfion, by the Prefiure of a long Screw, divided into fine Threads, like that of a Micrometer, which worked in the Hole of a Plate fixed to the Wall of the Houfe, and the Tube was made to bear against the end of this Screw by a Weight fixed to the end of a String pafiing over a Pulley having it's other end tied to a Hook fixed in the side of the Tube. The opposite end of that long Screw was fixed like an Axis in the Centre of a Brass Wheel, whose Circumference was divided into a great Number of equal Parts, while an Index fixed to an upright Board pointed to the Divisions of the Wheel.

Now while the Wheel was gently turned, the part of the Wire which played against the Crofs-Plate was viewed through a double Microfcope, 'till the little Hole in this Plate ap- peared to be bifected by the Wire. The Telescope being by this means placed verticle, and rectified immediately before the beginning of every Obfervation of the Tranfit of the bright Star in the Head of the Dragon, which pafies very near the Zenith of Keiv, (for viewing of which this Instrument was contrived and fet up in the Year 1725, at Kew near Richmond) and the Division of the Wheel over against the Index being then noted, the Wheel was turned again 'till the Interferon of the Wires in the Focus was brought to touch the Star at the inftant of it's Tranfit. Then by the Number of the Revolutions of the Wheel and it's parts that had parted by the fixed Index, the angular Motion of the Axis of the Telescope was eafily found by a Table of Minutes and Seconds, anfwering to those Revolutions ; then the Differences of those Angles found at different Obfervations, are the Differences of the Star's Declinations.

Dr Hook's Instrument, which he fixed up at Grejham College, defcribed by himfelf, was much such another, with a Telescope of 36 Feet long.

Dr Bradley's Instrument, as he himfelf fays in the Philosophical Tranfaclicns, Numb. 406. was erected at Wanftead in EJfcx, in the Year 1727. It's Telescope was but 124 Feet long. That it was upon the fame Principles, and for the fame Purpofe, as those of Dr Hook and Mr Molyneux ; that it's Structure was contrived, and chiefly directed by Mr Graham. That Mr Molyneux 's Instrument being originally defigned to try, whether the bright Star in the Head of the Dragon had any fenfible Parallax, could not be altered, as to it's Direction, more than seven or eight Minutes, and so could not well be used to make trial with other Stars. That his own Instrument had a divided Arch of 12 i Degrees, reaching to 6 ^ ° on each side the Zenith. And that he could be fecure of it's Situation to half a Second, viz. he could take by it a Zenith Distance of a Star to half a Second. Which I think to be fcarcely poflible in the actual Practice, however it may be made out by Theory. For an Arch of half a Second to a Radius of 12 ' Feet will be but about the 2600th part of an Inch, which I take to be too small an Interval to be distinguished by the Sight, efpecially when it is liable to be difturbed by Refraction, (even in the Zenith, as it has been alTerted) as well as other Im- pediments. Be this as it will, Dr Bradley could not find any annual Parallax of the fixed Stars. Nor could Mr Molyneux with his Instrument, although Dr Hook fays he did with his. Dr Bradley fufpects the Accuracy of Dr Hook's Instrument, as well as the Truth of the Conclusions deduced from the Obfervations made with it; that is, that the fixed Stars have really no annual Parallax, though Dr Hook, by his Obfervations makes it out, that they have one of about 27 or 30". See Dr Hook's Treatife, called, An Attempt to prove the Motion of the Earth. So alio Mr Flam/lead will have it, that the Distances of the Pole Star from the Ze- nith varies, as he found by Obfervations made for seven Years with a Mural Quadrant of al- most seven Feet Radius. His Letter to Dr Wallis, Anno 1698. Bee. 20. is to be feen at page 701. of the Third Volume of Dr Wallis's Mathematical Works.

VIII. Artificial Magnets.

This is a Name given to pieces of Steel, which being properly touched with Loadftones, do thereby acquire the fame Magnetical Qualities which those Loadftones have themfelves ; that is, will have attractive and directive Powers; some in a greater, and some in a less De- gree, according to the fize, bigness, fort, hardnefs or foftnefs, of the Steel, and manner of preparing and touching it. The way of making these artificial Magnets is not new, several did it in some Degree many Years ago. But some of the beft that have been made of late

Years are those of Servington Savery, Efq; who, in the Philosophical Tranfaclions, Numb. 414. for the Year 1730. gives a very honeft, elegant, and plain Account of them, and how to make them. Afterwards, in the Year 1744. the very ingenious Dr Knight (fee the Pki- lojopbical TranfaiJions, Numb. 474.) produced several artificial Magnets of his own Contri- vance before the Royal Society, lome of which confided of plain Bars of Steel naked, and others of Bars or Blocks of the fame Subftance, armed with Iron, after the common Man- ner of natural Loadftones, with much greater lifting Powers than those of Mr. Savery. But I do not find the Doclor has any where difcovered his way of making them, which it is pity he did not, in order for one to fee whether his was only an Improvement of Mr Sa- very's, or some other of the Dodor's own, not thought of by Mr Savery, or others before. However, in the Year 1751. there was printed at Cambridge a small Tract by J. Mitchell,

B. A. fhewing how to make artificial Magnets in an ealy and expeditious Manner, and which (as the Author himfelf fays) are fuperior to the beft natural Magnets, &c. Now I mail only take Notice here of two Things he fays in this Treatife. He tells us at page 19. that the Attraction and Repulfion of Magnets decreafe as the Squares of the Distances of ths refpective Poles increafe, but gives no Proof of it by undoubted Experiments of his own, or those of any body else. Sir Ifaac Newton, Dr Brook Taylor, and Dr Mufchenbroeck, all differ from him about this Matter. Sir Ifaac fays, in the 5th Corollary to the 6th Propor- tion of the 3d Book of his Mathematical Principles of Natural Philofophy, that vis magne- tica in receffu a magnete decrefcit in ratione diflantia non duplicata, fed fere triplicata, quantum ex craffis quibufdam obfervationibus animadvertere potui -, that is, the magnetical Attraction, as you go from the Magnet decreafes, not in the duplicate Ratio of the Di- ftance, but nearly in the triplicate Ratio, as far as I was able to gather from some grofs Ex- periments. Dr Brook Taylor (in the Philosophical Tranfaclions, Numb. 368.) fays from Ex- periments, which he made, it appears that the Power of Magnetifm does not alter according to any particular Power ot the Distances, but decreafes much falter in the greater Distances than it does in the near ones. And Dr Mufchenbroeck, at Numb. 390. of the Philosophical Tranfaclions, has confirmed by Experiments the fame thing, viz. that there is no Propor- tion between the attractive Force of the Magnet and the Distance. His way of doin^ this being, very convincing and ingenious, with two Terrellas or fpherical Magnets, whole Poles were in the Extremes of their Axes. He fufpended one of these from a Thread over the other, at different Distances from each other, and with Balance put to the end of the Thread, he could weigh the Quantity of the Forces wherewith the Terrella's acted upon one another at different Distances, &V. Mr Mitchell fays, at page 74. that mod Brass, and much burned Bricks, &c. are magnetical, but has produced no Proof by Experiments, without which, in these Matters, no Man can go one Step, or truly affirm or deny any Thing. In a Word, I shall have a better Opinion of these artificial Magnets, and be a bet- ter Judge of their Goodnefs, when the following Queries are anfwered by Experiments, fuffi- cient in Number and Quality.

1. Whether artificial Magnets in general, have such strong and lasting lifting, and north- pointing Powers, as good natural Magnets, and accordingly whether they are so proper to give the Needles of Sea-Compasses so strong and lasting directive Powers as natural Magnets ?

Why I make a Queftion of this may be gathered from the following PaiTages of Mr Sa- very's and Dr Knight's Accounts, in thole Tranfactions of the Royal Society, mentioned above. Mr Savery fays, he touched 37 large Steel Wires, 2.74 Inches long one by one, made a hexagonal Bundle of them, and bound them together with Armour, which then would lift a Key weighing 11 25 Grains Troy by the South Pole; but, fays he, when after each of those Wires had been placed feparately in a magnetical Line for two Days, each of them had loft some Virtue ; and again, that seven round Bars of Steel, all of a Size, ■] of an Inch in Diameter, and Length above 12 Inches, being prepared, touched, and armed, the fame as those Wires, lifted up about half a Year afterwards, more than one Pound ; by which it fhould feem that Mr Savery meant they lifted more than one Pound at first.

Dr Knight produced, at a Meeting of the Royal Society, a compound artificial Magnet, confifting of 12 Steel Bars, which had, in an Experiment before the Prefident, lifted up twenty-three Pound 2 \ Ounces Troy, did here, under all the Inconveniences and Difadvan- tages of a crowded Room, ftill lift up 21 Pounds and 11 Ounces Troy. That a fingle armed Block of Steel, which had before lifted 14 Pounds and two Ounces, did here, under the fame Difadvantages, as the former, lift thirteen Pounds and seven Ounces Troy Weight. Now I confefs, that I cannot comprehend how a crowded Room fhould gaufe the Magnets to lift up less Weight than they did at first ; but rather think they might have loft some ot their Virtue.

2. Whether those artificial Magnets that have the greateft lifting Powers, do always give to touched Needles the greateft north-pointing Powers ?

3. Whether the Conclusions from Experiments drawn from one of the Ways of meafur- ing the Strength of the north-pointing Power of a touched Needle, by bringing a Magnet, (arc. towards it, 'till the Magnet juft begins to move the Needle from it's fixed Place of pointing, be not truer and more to be depended upon than the other way, by- the greater or less Number of horizontal Vibrations of the Needle, and that of their Times of Vibration ?

From what has been said, it is evident to me, that artificial Magnets lofe some of their Power in some lime-, and if they are found in a longer Time to lofe more, they may at last be so weak, as not to communicate to a Needle a North-pointing Power of fufricient Strength ■, that is, would be good for nothing. It might likewise be proper to obferve, whe- ther the Virtue of natural Magnets may not decreafe in time, as well as that of artificial Mag- nets •, and which do this the least, for these last are certainly the beft.

The natural Magnets of the greateft attractive Powers, that I ever heard of, are three One is an armed Terrella, belonging to the Royal Society, prefented to them by the Earl of jibercom-, which, when his Lordfhip had it, is said to have lifted 40 Pounds weight. An- other of the late Duke of Devon/hire's, some Years ago, at the Houfe of the Royal Society, did at a Meeting of the Society left up near 100 weight, if I remember right. Laftly, I have been told, that the King of Portugal has got a Magnet that will lift up 6000 Ounces (but what Ounces I do not know), A Son of mine faw a Print and Defcription of it in the Hands of a Tradefman at Cork.

Mr Mufchenbroeck, (fee the Philosophical Tranfailions, Numb. 390.) had a Magnet that would act upon a touch'd Needle at the Distance of 14 Rbinland Feet.

The beft Philofophers, who have endeavoured to explain the Manner in which the magne- tical Virtue of the Loadftone acts, fay, that the magnetick Matter of a Loadftone moves in a Stream from one Pole to the other internally, and is then carried back in curve Lines ex- ternally, 'till it arrives again at the Pole where it first entered, to be again admitted. The immediate Caufe why two or more magnetical Bodies attract each other, is the Flux of one and the fame Stream of magnetical Matter through them ; and the immediate Caufe of mag- nttical Repulfion, is the Conflux and Accumulation of the magnetical Matter. This is to- lerably well made appear by Des Cartes, in his Treat ife upon the Magnet. See page 270, 283. Part 4. of his Principles of Pbilofopby ; and better by others after him.

I shall now proceed to mention a few Things in general, about the Variation of the mag- netical Needle.

1. It has been found by Obfervations, both at Sea and Land, for near 200 Years lafr^ that the touched Needle of a Sea-Compass does not point exactly to the North or South, but in a few Places, which all lie nearly in the fame Meridian. At all other Places, in which Experiments have been made, the pointing of the Needle is not North, but to some other Degree of the Horizon, either towards the North-Well, North-Faff, South- West, or South- East, more or less. It has also been found, that the Variation of the Needle from the North at the fame Place alters, more and more, by a very flow Motion. For Example, Mr Bur- roivs, in the Year 1580, at Limeboufe near London, observed the Variation to be ii° 11' eafterly. Mr Gunter, in 1612, 6 ° eafterly. Mr Gellibrand, in 1633. 4 eafterly. In the Year 1657. there was no Variation. In 1672. the Variation was 2 30' wefterly. In 1692- it was 6 ° wefterly. In 1723. 14°. 17'. And Mr George Graham (in the Philosophical 'I'ranfaHions, at Numb. 487. for the Year 1748.) concludes, that during the Courfe of 167 Years, viz. from 1580, to the End of the Year 1747. the magnetical Needle has moved weft wards at Lotidon 28 ° $3.

Flence, if the magnetical Needle at London moved equally towards the West, it would go wefterly about 1 o'. z" every Year, and perform one Revolution in about 2079 Years. But it does not move equally to the West, according to these Obfervations ; for because in the Year 1580. the Variation was E. 1 1 °. 15'. and in the Year 1657. there was no Variation •, in 77 Years, it moved 1 1'\ 15'. And in the Year 1723. it was observed to be 14 . iy'. wefterly ; and so had moved in 66 Years (from 1657 to 1723.) 3 . 2'. more than it did be- fore in 77 Years •, confequently it's Motion was flower from 1580 to 1657, t ^ ian ^ was from 1657 to 1723.

.Again, in the Philosophical Tranfailions, Numb. 64. Mr Hevelius at Dantzich, observed the Variation of the Needle to be weftward. In the Year 1620, i°. In the Year 1642, 3°. 5'. In the Year 1670, 7 . 20'. Flence, according to him, the Variation in 50 Years, viz. from 1620 to 1670. was 6°. 20 / . wherefore, if the Motion were equable, a compleat Revolution by Mr Ilevelius's Obfervations, would be performed in about 2857 Years. He makes the Variation at Dantzick to increafe every Year 9'. 6". But how true this is I know not; it can only be found by FLxperience, whether it be so or not-, and if it be true, the Variation at any given Time, paft or to come, might eafily be known without Obfer- vation.

2. The Variation of the Needle in the high Latitudes has generally been found to be much greater than in other Places, as in Hudfon's Streights, from 6S Degrees of Longitude to 8r Degrees, and Latitude 64 . The Variation was observed by Captain Middleton (fee Numb. 393. of the Philosophical T'ranfcMions) to be 46° •, and in Baffin's Bay, in the Latitude of 80^'. the Variation (fee a Table in the Philosophical Tranfailions, Numb. 148.) was observed to be 57 . wefterly in the Year 1668. Capt. Middleton fays, the Compass in Hudfon\ Streights, would fcarcely traverfe at all. He fays also (at Numb. 449. of the said Tranf- actions for the Year 1735.) when he was in the Ice in Hudfon's Bay, the Needle of his Com- pass would oftentimes lofe so much of it's magnetick Virtue, as that ic would not traverfe at all, any longer than the Quarter-Matter kept touching it, but by bringing the Compass to the Fire he recovered it'svirtue. The accurate Mr Jofepb Harris (fee the Pbilofophial Tranf&gt;Mions, Numb. 428. for the Year 1733.) fays, that being at Sea about Jamaica, and the Havamiah, in the Year 1733. he thought the Virtue of the Needle of the Compass was not always of equal Strength. Sometimes several Obfervations would agree very well, ac other Times the Card would ftand indifferently any where, within a Degree or more of it's Meridian; and he observed this several Times. He also .fays, the Card would differ from itfelf about 2°. fometimes between the Morning and the Evening of the fame Day •, and this Difference would continue regular, as it were, for several Days, and then vanifh for a Week and more, and then would return as before. This ingenious Perfon also fays (fee Numb. 401. of the Philosophical Tranfaftions) that in his Voyage from England to Vera Cruz they observed the Variation with a good Azimuth Compass ; but he always found the beft Obfer- vations they could make, when compared together, differed so much, that they could not be depended upon, to much less than three or four Degrees, and fometimes to half a Point of the Compass. Moreover, the ingenious Mr George Graham (fee the Philosophical Tranf- aRions, Numb. 383.) from Obfervations he made at London, of the Variation of the mag- netick Needle, found that three touched Needles would exactly fettle and point to the fame Place, after being removed, by a great Number of Trials made immediately one after another, but yet he found them at different Times of removal to differ confiderably from their former Directions. After many Trials he found all the Needles he uled would not only vary in their Directions upon different Days, but frequently upon different Times of the fame Day ; and this Difference would fometimes amount to more than half a Degree in the fame Day, fometimes in a few Hours. He also found the Variation has generally been greateft for the fame Day, between the Hours of twelve and four in the Afternoon, and the lead about fix or seven in the Evening, &c. This ingenious Perfon also, in the Philofcphi- ealTranfatlions, Numb. 389. for the Year 1723. gives an Account of a Dipping Needle of his, with Obfervations to try if the Dip and Vibrations were conftant and regular.

AH these Inequalities and Irregularities of the Variation of the magnetick Needle (and many others to be found in Authors) may in part be true, and proceed from true Caufes afTigned, and partly be not fo, but let down as true from fallable, uncertain, erroneous Ob- fervations of those that made them, which might proceed, 1. From the Nearnefs of Iron. 2. The Weaknefs of the magnetick Virtue of the Needle difpofing it to (land indifferently at any Point of the Compass it is fet to. 3. The Friction of the Cap. 4. The Motion of the Ship. 5. The Refiftance of the Air, which in high Latitudes may be so great in the cold Weather, as to confiderably affect the true pointing of the Needle. 6. The great Re- fraction, in high Latitudes, causing an Error in finding the Meridian Line, which Line, in high Latitudes, cannot be determined with any great Certainty, by any Method whatfoever, in my Opinion •, because in these Latitudes all the Points of the Compass begin almost to be nearly Meridians, (for at the Pole itfelf, every Point of the Florizon is South at the North Pole, and North at the South Pole,) and because the Amplitudes and Azimuths of the Sun or Stars, cannot be taken in those high Latitudes, without Error, if at all, by reason of the too great obliquity of the Arches of the diurnal Motion in those Latitudes •, and since the meridian Lines cannot be found, but by an Amplitude or Azimuth observed, it is evident the Variation cannot be had to any great Exactnefs, if at all, in such high Latitudes.

Mr Wright, in his Treatife of the Errors of Navigation, firffc publifhed before the Year 1600, gives a Table of the Variation of the Compass, as taken by himfelf, both at Sea and at Shore, in a Voyage of the Right Honourable the Earl of Cumberland, in the Year 1598. He also gives two other Tables of the Variation at the End of that Book, the one pretty long and extenfive, with regard to the principal Places of the Earth or Sea ; and the other a leffer Table, of Peter Plancius's. Dr Halley (in the Philosophical Tranfatlions, Numb. 148. for the Year 1683.) gives another Table of the Variation in different Places, at different Times. But, in my Opinion, this Table is much too fhort and imperfect for a Foundation to build a true Theory of the Variation upon, though the Doctor himfelf did take it to be fufiicient in that Tranfaction, where he supposes the whole Globe of the Earth to be one great Magnet with four fixed magnetical Poles, near each Pole of the Equator two, and that in those Parts ol the World which lie near adjacent to any of those magnetick Poles, the neaRest Pole being al • •ways predominant over the more remote, &c. Upon this Suppofition the Doctor ingeniouily enough accounts in general for the Variations and Alterations, when they are always the fame at the fame Place ; but since thev have been observed to be different at the fame Place. The Doctor had laid afide, for some Years, this Theory of his of four fixed magnetical Poles, and (in the Philosophical Tranfatlions, Numb. 195.) re fumed it again with Alterations and Amendments, making two of the magnetical Poles moveable, &c. and conjectures, that thcle two moveable Poles perform one Revolution in about 700 Years, at the end or which Time all the Variations will be the fame again in the fame Places, C5V. Mr Bond, in his Treatife of the Longitude found, pag. 7. fays this Revolution will be once in 600 Years, arid that the Earth has but two magnetick Poles, at 80 {- ° Distance from the Poles of the Equator, fcJV. The Frenchmen who, in the Year 1737, went to measure a Degree of the Earth, at Tornca, in the Latitude 6f. 50'. found the Variation to be thefc f. 5'. weftwardly. And in the Year

pofitions'to "account for the Caufes of the Variation, can reconcile these several" Differences of the Times of the Revolutions of the Variation that I haVe given above, and therefore their Hypothecs cannot be true.

In fhort, this Affair of the Variation is Very uncertain,- it s true Cauie not rightly known •, nor have we any true and fixed Rules how to compute what it is or will be at a given Place,' at a given Time. Tables of the true Quantity thereof for several Years, at many different Places, under the fame Meridians and Parallels, being wanted to build a true Sy- ftem upon. From such Tables only it can be gathered how the Variation at given Places alters, and at what Rate, and according to what Regularity, and whether any of these Things can be difcerned or not. ,

Dr Hallefs, Chart of the Variation is very ingenious, but how true it is I cannot lay. It true for the Time he made it, it cannot be so in future, because of the Alteration of the Va- riation at a given Place.

There are several Authors, our own Countrymen, who have wrote upon the attractive Virtue of the Magnet. As Gilbert de Magnet e, Robert Norman, and Mr Burroughs** new Attractive, wherein is an Account of the Variation. The Lord Paiflefs Treatife about the attractive Virtue of the Loadftone, with Calculations and Tables, &c. And Mr Mufchen- broeck's Dijjcrtatio de Magnetc. This last by an ingenious Dutchman, who has wrote well upon the Subject.

IX. A New contrived Mariner's Compass.

ThisTnftrument is defcribed in the Philosophical TranfaElions, Numb. 495. it differs from the others that are commonly made, in having it's Needle in fhapeofaParallalepipedon. It's Card, confiftincr of unftiffencd Pa-er, and a light thin Circle of Brass, divided into Degrees, &c. An ivory Cap, turned so as to receive a small bit of Agate at the Top. The Point fupport- in» the Card is a common fewing Needle. The very ingenious Dr Knight, who exhibited oiie of these Compasses before the Royal Society in the Year 1750. made by Mr Smealon, will have these Alterations to be for the better, both tor the true and well pointing of the Needle, and it's long Continuance to do fo. But although the great Number of Experiments the Doctor has tryed and made, many of which arc to be feen in the Philosophical Tranfaftions, at Numb. 474, in the Year 1744. is a plain Proof of his Skill in Magnetifm ; yet I am not quite fatisfied with what he fays of the Faults in the Compass Cards, and his Remedies. His Experiments about this to me feem to be too few, to deduce from them a general Re- jection of the Make and Fafhion of the old Cards, as being less perfect than those he re- commends. Skilful Mariners (of which we have enough) who have used Compasses at Sea for many Years, may at leafl be allowed to be as competent Judges of the Goodnefs of their Compasses, as the Doctor; and I have always been apt to think, that real Improvements of Instruments that have been generally used for more than two Flundred Yeajs, .would have been thought of before the Year 1750. The Plants and Trees of the Gardens, of the Arts and Sciences, cultivated by the Dung of Ambition, and nouriflied with the Waters of Inte- Rest, are very fubject to be blasted by the Winds of Error, and fometimes Hunted by the Weeds of Impofition.

X. The Use of an Azimuth Compass, of a new Contrivance, by Capt. Middleton, is to be found in the Philosophical Tranfactions, Numb. 450. for the Tear 1738.

The Captain fays, that the Variation of the magnetical Needle at Sea may be found by it, with greater F&gt;fe and Exactnefs, than by any other Azimuth-Compass contrived before that Time, viz. the Year 1738. But as he conceals the Defcription of his Instrument, we don't well know how to judge of it's Excellency, he telling us, that those who have the Inftru- ment before them, have no Occafion for a Defcription of it. That he himfelf found by Expe- rience it was effectual. He only fhews the Manner of using it; fays that one Perfon may manage it, whereas the old Compass requires several Perfons, which also makes it fubject to many great Errors, as he will have it.

The Main of this new contrived Compass of the Captain's, gathered from the fhort Ac- count he gives of it's Use, is the taking the Sun's Altitude by Reflection, viz. bringing it down to the Horizon, in some such Manner as is done by Mr Hadky's Sea-Quadrant. It carries a Telescope with a vertical Hair within it. It is very pofiible this is a very good Com- pass, but it's dearnefs may be some Objection to it's general Use.

XI. Cekflial Globes fomeivhat improved.

The late ingenious Mr Scnex, at Numb. 447. of the Philosophical TranfaHions for the Year j 730. fhews how to make the Poles of the Diurnal Motion in a Celeftial Globe pass round the Poles of the Ecliptic. His Contrivance is this; the Poles of the diurnal Motion do not enter into the Globe, but are affixed at one End to two Shoulders or Arms of" Brass, at the Distance of 23 I Degrees from the Poles of the Ecliptick. Thefe Shoulders at the other end are strongly fattened on to an iron Axis, parting through the Poles of the Ecliptick, and is made to move round, but with a very ft iff Motion •, so that when it is adj tilted to any Point of the Ecliptick which you defire the Equator may interfect, the diurnal Motion of the Globe about it's Axis will not be able to difturb it.

The Reason of Fuch a Contrivance is to render the Use of the celeftial Globes more perfect and lading, than they can be without it ; because the Places of the fixed Stars, put down upon celeftial Globes, made at any given Time, will not be true but for some Years, by reason of the Proceffion of the equinoctial Points, viz. the Interferon of the Planes of the Eclip- tick and Equator, causing the Distances of the fixed Stars from those Points continually to alter ; this was observed by the antient Astronomers, who made the Sphere of the fixed Stars to move about the Poles of the Ecliptick with a flow Motion, so that all the fixed Stars in the Ecliptick or its Parallels, will go once round in the Space of 25920 Years, alter which Time the Stars will again return to their former Places.

Hence the Longitude of the fixed Stars alter one Degree at the End of every 72 Years or 50" every Year. Therefore celeftial Globes made many Years ago, or ftich as' are 'new made, many Years hence, cannot be used with Certainty, the Places of the Stars fet down upon them altering too much, at the Ends of those Times, and to remedy this in fome measure is what Mr Senex propofes to Oo, by his Contrivance abovementioned.

Note, There is another Way to do the fame Thing by Dr Latham, at Numb. 460. of the Philosophical Tranfattions, for the Year 1741.

The very ingenious Mr James Fergufoti, (at Numb. 483. in the Year 1747. of the Philo- fophical Tranfatlions,) has added another Improvement to the celeftial Globe, chiefly for find- ing the Times of the Rifing and Setting of the Moon, with her Time of coming to the South, tolerably exact, without an Ephemeris ; but nearer the Truth, by having «iven the Moon's Latitude for the Day by an Ephemeris,

His Contrivance is as follows : On the Axis of the Globe above the Hour circle is fixed Plate 4. the Arch A at one End by the Screw D (fee Fig. 24.) so as to leave fufficient Room for Fig. 24. turning the Hour Index. The other End at B, being always over the Pole of the Ecliptick

has a Pin fixed into it, whereon the Collets C and B, are moveable by their Wires F and G when the Screw E is flackened, and may be made fait at 1'leafure by this Screw; lb that the turning the Globe round will carry the Wires round with it, fhewing thereby the apparent Motions of the Sun and Moon by the little Balls on their Ends at PI and I. On the Collet C, in which the Sun's Wire is fixed, there is also fixed the circular Plate L, whereon the 29 4. Days of the Moon's Age are engraven, which have their beginning juft below the Sun's Wire, confequently the Plate L cannot be turned without carrying the Sun's Wire'aloncr with it, by which means the Moon's Age is always counted from the Sun ; and the Moon's Wire being turned so as to be under the Day of her Age on this Plate, will fet her at her due Distance from the Sun at that Time. Thefe Wires being Quadrants from C to H, and from B to I, mult ftill keep the Sun and Moon directly over the Ecliptick, because the Centre of their Motions at C and B is directly over the Pole of the Ecliptick, in the artick Circle. But because the Moon does not keep her Courfe in the Ecliptick, as the Sun does, having a Declination of 5 i Degrees on each side of it in every Lunation, fhe is made to fcrew on her Wire as far on both sides, as this her Declination or Latitude amounts to ; for this purpofe K is a small Piece of Palte-board to be applied over the Ecliptick at right Angles, the middle Line 00 ftanding perpendicularly thereon; from this Line there is maked 5 a Degrees on each side upon the outward Limb, which reaching to the Moon makes her to be eafily afljufted to her Latitude at any Time. Note, The Horizon of the Globe fhould be fupported by two femicircular Arches, inftead of the usual Way of doing it by Pillars, be- caufe the Arches will not ftop the Progrefs of the Balls, when they go below the Horizon in an oblique Sphere.

The USE.

To retlify the Globe. Elevate the Pole to the Latitude of the Place, then bring the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick to the brazen Meridian, and fet the Hour Index to XII at Noon. Keep- ing the Globe in this Pofition, flacken the Screw E, and fet the Sun directly over his Place in the Meridian ; which done, kt the Moon's Wire under the Day of her Age, for that Time, on the Plate D, and fhe will ftand over her Place in the Ecliptick, for that Time, and you will fee in what Conftellation fhe then is. Laftly, fallen the Wires by the Screw E, and the Globe will be rectified ; this done, turn it round in the usual Way, and you will fee the Sun and Moon rife and fet for that Day, on the fame Point of the Horizon, as they do in the Heavens ; the Times of their rifing and letting are fhewn by the Hour Index, which also fhews the Time of the Moon's passing over the Meridian. If you want to find the Times of the rifing and fetting of the Moon to greater Exactnefs, find her Latitude for that Day by the Ephemeris ; and as it is South or North, fcrew her so many Degrees from the Ecliptick, measuring them by the Pafte- board K, applying it to the Ecliptick, as abovementioned ; and then turning the Globe round, you will fee the Time of the Moon's rifing and fetting by the Hour Index, and her Amplitude on the

Honzon for that Time, as it is affected by her Latitude, which will fometimes be very confi- derable. Note, All the Phenomena of the Harveft-Moon become very plain by this addi- tional Contrivance, which is curious enough. But some People may think the common way of finding the Time of the Moon's coming to the South, (given in what is cafled the Julian Calendar, to be found in some Books of Navigation) which is eafy and well known, and may be exact enough for many Purpofes, may be fufficient, without such an additional Con- trivance as this, to do the fame Thing.

XII. Clocks, and other Time-Keepers.

The Instruments for measuring Time, are Sun-Dials, Water Dials, Sand-Dials, a fingle Pendulum, or Clocks and Watches. Sun-Dials have been enough treated of by Mr Bion. Water-Dials and Sand-Dials are now in no very great Efteem, although some of them are ingenious enough ; they are treated of in several Writings, viz. in Vitruyius's Architecture^ Gefner*s Pandetlicks, Mariinelli of Elementary Clocks, Archangelo Maria Radi. of Sand- Dials, Schottus in his Tecbnica Curio/a, &c.

The old indented Wheel-Clocks that were regulated by horizontal Balances., and generally used 'till the Year 1660, are now in no great Use, being far more imperfect than those which have Pendulums adapted to them to regulate their Motion ; nor do Watches measure Time so equable and true as Pendulum-Clocks. Galileo's Son was the first who applied a Pendu- lum to a Clock in the Year 1649. And tne g rcat Mr Huygens, in the Year 1673, pubhfhed his famous Book, called Horclogium Ofcillatorium, explaining the Manner of doing it with a Figure of the Clock, being indeed the very fame as that Clock deferred by Mr Bion.

There are several more Things about Clocks, treated of by Mr Huygens, in his Book abovementioned, the chief of which are what follow.

Mr Hrngens, at page 13. of his Horologium, gives two Ways to regulate the Motion of a Clock. The first is by the Obfcrvations of the Tranfits or Paffagcs of some of the known fixed Stars, and the other by means of the Times given by the. Shadow of the Sun upon a Dial, together with an Equation Table.

The Subftance of what he fays is this, choofe some proper Place for the Eye, from which you may fee several ot the fixed Stars inftantly difappear in passing behind high Luildings, and in that Place fix a Plate with a Hole in it to look through, of the Magnitude of the Pupil of the Ey", in order to bring it always to the fame Point •, this done, obferve the Time fhewn by the Clock the Moment you fee a known fixed Star vanifhing from, your Sight behind the Building, the Eye looking through that fixed Hole, and doing the fame Thing the next Night, or rather some Nights after, if the Interval of Time between two such Obiervations of the fame Star be only one Day, and the Time given by the Clock in the later Obfervation be less than that given in the former, by three Minutes and 56 Seconds, then it is evident the Clock goes right, because every Revolution of the fixed Stars is less than a mean folar Day by that Quantity. I fay a mean folar Day, because folar Days, or the Intervals of the Sun's Appultes to the Meridian are unequal. But if the fame Obfcrva- tions be repeated some Nights after, the Computation of that Difference must be made at each. For Example, suppose at the fiifl Oblervation a Star vanifhes at g h 30' 18" by the Clock, and leven Days after the fame Star appears to vanifh by the Clock at 8\ 50''. 24/''. the Difference of these Time is 39'. 54''. and a seventh Part of it is 5'. 42'' which fhews, that the diurnal Period or the Clock is 5 54". longer than a fidereal Day, whereas a folar Day of a mean Length is but 3 . 6 ' . longer, and by Confequence the diurnal Period of the Clock is i'. 46". too long. Note, The Intervals of Time between the fucceffive Appulfes of a fixed Star to the fame vertica Circle, are equal to the Intervals bttween it's Appulfes to the Meri- dian. But to avoid the Uncertainty ot the Air's Refraction, as much as may be, the Face of the Building fhould be as near the Plane of the Meridian as poffible. Note also, The Stars made Choice of fhould be those near the Equinoctial, by reason of their quick Paffages.

The Motion of a Clock may be examined another way by the Sun. But we must here have regard to the Inequality of the Natural Days ; for as has been said, these are not all equal between themfeives, and though the Difference be but small, yet it often happens, that in the Space of several Days it becomes so confiderable, as it must not be difregarded ; for although we fhould have the most perfect Defcription of the folar Days, and the Motion of the Clock most exactly agreed with the true Meafure of those Days; yet it would neceffarily happen that at certain Times of the Year they would differ from one another a 'Quarter of an Hour, or even Half an Hour, and then again at ftated Times return to their Agreement ; as is to be feen in the Tables of the Equation of Days.

Now, to compare the Motion of a Clock by that of the Sun on a Sun-Dial, take the Equation of any Day, when the Clock is fet to go with the Sun-Dial, and the Equation of that Day, you want to know how true the Clock goes. If the former Equation be greater than the latter, the Time by the Clock will exceed that of the Sun-Dial, by the Difference of those Equations •, but if the Equation of the; latter Day be found to be greater, the Time by the Sun Dial will be the greatcft. For Example, If on the Fifth of March the Clock and Sun going together, the Equation of that Day be found in the Table to be 3'. n". and I want to know, whether or not, on the 20th Day of the fame Month, the Clock truly measures equai Time, the Equation for this Day in the Table will be 7'. 27". which because it is greater than that for the 5th, by 4 . 16 '. the Time fhewn by the Sun-Dial will be flower than that given by the Clock by the said Difference; wherefore if it be found different, it is eafy to gather from thence how much every Day the Sun Dial goes faftcr or flower than the Clock.

Note, The Conftruction of an Equation Table of this Kind, is founded upon a twofold Caufe, both known to Astronomers, viz. upon the Obliquity ol the Ecliptick, and the Irre- gularity of the Sun's Motion, because it is deduced as well by Reason as Experiments found- ed upon these very Clocks, without which it could not be inferred ; for Obfervations of the Time of the Sun's coming to the Meridian every Day for many Months have most evidently been found to agree.

Now, if upon Trial by both Methods, but rather by the first, the daily Error of the Clocks going fhould be so great as to amount to 3'. or 4'. this must be remedied by lengthening or ihortening it's Pendulum, in doing of which the following Rule fhould be observed, viz. the daily Motion of the Clock will be accelerated or retarded by so many Minutes, as the Pen- dulum is fliortened or lengthened about T 4o Parts of an Inch taken so many times, as there are Minutes. The going of the Clock being thus almofl corrected, the Rest of the Correction is performed by moving upwards or downwards upon the Rod V V a small Weight D, as I have said before. (See the Figure in the 17th Plate of the Book of Mathematical Injiru- merits.)

Mr Huygens fays, that two such Clocks as these were carried to Sea in the Year 1 664, i n order to find the Longitude by them, being moved by a Spring inftead of a Weight -, and to avoid their being affected by the Motion of the Ship, the Clocks inclofed in a brafs Cylinder, were fufpended from a fteel Ball, and the Stern, which continued the Motion of the Pendulum, (which Pendulum was half a Foot long) produced downwards, and governed it, was in Shape of the Letter F inverted •, for fear least the Motion of the Pendulum fhould be- come circular, and thereby the Ceflation of it's Motion might arife. The Captain of the Ship that had these two Clocks being in Company at Sea with three others, on the Coaft of Guinea, and failing from thence near the Equinoctial, had a Confukation with the other Cap- tains to know where they were, they produced their Journals, the Captain with the Clocks using them to correct his Journal, by comparing their going with the Motion of the Sun. The Event was, that they all differed very much in their Reckoning from this Captain's, viz. one said he was 80 Leagues, another 100, and another ftill more, from the Land, but this Cap- tain said he was but about 30 Leagues, which was found to be true, and the next Day they arrived at one of the African Iflands, called Del Fuego.

Mr Huygens, at page 17. of his Horologium Ofcil. gives a more particular Account of this, as well as other Obfervations of other People finding the Longitude at Sea by other of these Clocks, whose Pendulums were half a Pound weight, and about nine Inches long, the Mo- tion of whose Wheels was by a Weight, the whole Clock being put into a Cafe four Foot long, and at the Bottom of the Cafe there was hung an additional Weight of more than 100 Pounds, thereby to keep the Inflrument better fufpended in the perpendicular Pofture.

This great Man Mr Huygens, in his Horologium Ofcil. gives two other Contrivances for the equable going of his Clock, and for the Prefervation of it's Motion at Sea, in blowing Wea- ther, both ot which, not being long, are as follow : To the Crown Wheel, in which the Pal- lets of the Pendulum play, is hung a small Weight from a (lender Chain, by which it is only moved, all the Rest of the Machinery acting no otherwise than that in every half Second, this little leaden Weight will be Restored to it's first Altitude, almost after the fame Manner as is to be fecn in the Conftruction of our Clock already given •, where one Weight is raifed up by the Line, while the other {viz. that of the Pendulum) by it's Gravity preferves the Motion of the Clock. Now by this Contrivance, every Thing being reduced, as it were, to one Wheel only, the Clock will appear to have a greater Equality in it's Motion than it had be- fore, viz according to the former Conftruction. And fomething happened here very remark- able. When two such Clocks were fufpended from the fame Beam, fupported upon two Props, the Motion of the Pendulum of each agreed so well by reciprocal Beats, as not in the least to vary, the Noife of each being always heard at the fame Moment. And if by fome means this Harmony was difturbed, it would be Restored again of itfelf in a fhort time ; I at first wondered at this uncommon Event, but afterwards, upon ftrict Enquiry, I found the Caufe thereof to exift in the Motion of the Beam itfelf, although this was fcarcely fenfible. For the alternate Vibrations of the Pendulums, by any the least Weight communicate fome Motion to the Clocks, and this Motion is impreffed upon the Beam itfelf, and by that means if each Pendulum did not most exquifitely move with reciprocal Vibrations, it would at length happen, that the Motion of the Beam would altogether ceafe, which Caufe neverthelefs will not take place but when the Motion of the Clocks from thence are most equable, and confen- tancous between themfelves.

The other Contrivance of Mr Huygens's, to preferve the Motion of the Clock at Sea in

Plate 2. great Agitations of the Ship, is as follows. (See Plate 2. Fig. 22.) The Pendulum is of a

Fig. 22. triangular Form as A B C, at the Bottom of which the leaden Weight B is hung, and at the

AnglesAandCofit the fame is also fufpended from the cycloidal Plates or Cheeks ED, FG. The middle of the Base A C receives the perpendicular Axis H K of the horizontal Crown Wheel N, which turns at K by means of the Teeth of that Wheel, during which Time the Weight B moves the Base A C of the triangular Pendulum A C B. The Motion of all the Wheels, is not by a Weight, but by a fteel Spring enclofed in a Barrel, and the Crown Wheel is below the other Wheels of the Clock. L L are the small lenticular Weights to regulate the Motion of the Pendulum.

The Manner of the Clock's Sufpenfion is expreffed in the 23d Figure, Plate 2. where the Cafe AB is fet upon two Axes, (one of which, as C, can only be feen) fitted to an iron Rectangle D E, which Rectangle likewise moves about the Axes F G, going into the Ends F G of the iron Gnomon F H K G, which Gnomon is firmly fixed to the Top of that part of the Ship wherein fhe Clock is, and to the Bottom of the Cafe is hung a Weight of fifty Pounds. By this Contrivance the Clock will preferve it's upright Pofture in all Inclinations of the Ship. The Axis C, together with that opposite to it, is so placed, as to be in a right Line with the two Points of Sufpenfion of the Pendulum, that we have already fpoken off, by which means it's ofcillatory Motion cannot move the Clock, than which there is nothing more liable to deftroy the Motion of the Pendulum. Moreover, the Thicknefs of the Axes C C, of about an Inch, and the Bignefs of the Gravity of the Weight hung on at the Bot- tom, are a Check upon the too great Motion of the Clock, and make it continually return to it's upright Pofture, when the Ship mould happen to be in a great deal of Agitation.

Now one of these Clocks, thus managed, being tried at Sea, feems more promifing than the others that have been already tried, to avoid being affected with the different Motions of a Ship. Thus far from Mr Huygens,

One Mr Harrifon, several Years ago, made a Clock to go at Sea of a different Conftruc- tion from those of Mr Huygens's, whose Pendulum confifted of several horizontal Rods that fee-fawed, or vibrated up and down. The Rods were partly of Wood, and partly of Brass, in order to check one another's lengthening or fhortening by heat or cold, and thereby keep- ing the Motion of the Clock equable. I have not feen the Clock, and have been only told this, by a Perfon who faw it many Years ago. The Inventor himfelf now lives in London. One of them was fhewn to the Lords of the Admiralty, and approved of by them.

That great Mechanick, the late Mr George Graham^ has made some of the bed Clocks in the World for the true measuring Time ; they are partly defcribed in the PhilosophicalTranf cttionsy at Numb. 432. There is also another curious Clock of his, defcribed in Dr Defagu- liers's, Courfe of Experiments to measure Time to quarter Seconds.

Gefner, in his Pandetlicks, fays, that FJrbard JVallingford, an Abbot of St Albans^ who lived in the Year 1326, made a Clock with wonderful Art, that had not it's Fellow in all the World. Some Clocks have been made to fliew apparent Time, viz. to go with the Sun at all Times of the Year. Thefe are Curiofities indeed, but little else. Some Clocks fhew the Sun's annual Motion by the Addition of a Wheel going once round in 365 Days 5 Hours and 49 Minutes ; and others fhew the Moon's fynodical Revolution of 29 Days 12 Hours, and 44 Minutes, being the mean Time from one Conjunction to the next. There are other Clocks that fhew the Motions of the Planets particularly ; and that Instrument fhewing the Motions and Phafes of them all, of which there are many amongft us, made by our Mathe- matical Instrument-Makers, is called a Planetarium or Orrery. And indeed that defcribed by me at page 189, is not so perfect, as some that have been made since, the fuperiors Planets not being in it.

Gafper Scottus the Jefuit, in his Techniea Curiofa, feu Mirabilia Artis, printed in the Year 1664, in Quarto, fays, that Father Scbirley de Reita&gt; in a Book called, The Eye of Enoch and Elias, gives the Conftruction of a Planetarium, reprefenting all the Motions of the Pla- nets, both true and mean, their Stations, Retrogradations, and Directions, without Epicycles or Equations, and that with a few Wheels, endlefs Screws and Pullies. The flrft Wheel of this Instrument that gives Motion to all the Rest, is moved round by the Fall of Water. The Sun's Motion in it is only 365 Days, and theDisks of the Planets are too great. See a particular Account of all the Parts of this Instrument in the aforsaid Book of Scottus's ; wherein likewise he treats of the different Machines that were in use to measure Time. The Book is curious, full of Figures; and although he fometimes fails in the Exactnefs to what we are now arrived, yet in my Opinion the Book is valuable enough.

At the End of Mr Huygens'?, Opufcula pofthuma, printed in Quarto at Leyden, in the Year 1703, there is a mafterly Defcription of the Motion of the Planets by Clock- Work, at least upon the Aftronomical Principles affumed by him. He indeed herein makes the annual Mo- tion of the Earth to be but 365 Days, when it fliould have been near 6 Hours more, but this he did to avoid increafing the Number of Wheels. He gives the beft way of finding the Number of Teeth, that will make all the Motions the neaRest the Truth poffible, by the Method of finding the neaRest Ratio in leffer Numbers, that shall approach to a given Ratio in greater Numbers. The Number of the Teeth of one of his Wheels is 300, of another 206, of another 219, of another 166, of another 158, of another 137, &c. He gives two very large Figures of his Machine, which is 2 Feet over.

At the End of the first Volume of Dr Defaguliers's Courfe of Experimental Philofophy, printed in the Year 1745, is a Defcription of a Planetariam of the Doctor's, with Figures, which I take to be one of the beft of these Inftrumcnts that has yet appeared, and is 3 Feet over. The Dotlor fays, these fort of Machines had the Name of Orrery given to them by Sir Richard Steele, and the first that was made in England was by the late Mr George Graham about the Year 171 2, which was fent over to Prince Eugene. But that it only fhewed the Motion of the Moon round the Earth, and that of the Earth and Moon round the Sun. That this Instrument being in the Hands of Mr Rowley, a Mathematical Inllrument-Maker,' he copied it, adding Improvements of his own, and thereby got all the Praife due to Mr Graham, though Sir Richard Steele did not know Mr Graham to be the first Inventor.

In the Philosophical Tranfatlions, at Numb. 479. for the Year 1746. the ingenious Mr Fergufon defenbes the Phanomena of Venus, as reprefented in an Orrery of his, agreeable to the Obfervations of S. hianchini, who will have her Axis to be inclined jz°. from a Line supposed to be drawn perpendicular to the Plane of the Ecliptick, and that her diurnal Mo- tion is performed in 24 Days and 8 Hours. Whereas in other Orrerys her Axis is perpen- dicular to the Plane of the Ecliptick, and her diurnal Motion about it is only 23 flours. This Gentleman's Improvement and Difcoveries are ingenious enough, but it's Ukfulnefs will be beft: perceived by the Inhabitants of Venus.

I ihali here fay no more of these very elaborate, expenfive and artificial Clock-Work Reprefentations of the Motions, and Appearances of the heavenly Bodies, which at beft are only amufive, and apt to afford more Honour to the Inventors, and InteRest to the Makers of them, than any ways really promote the most useful Parts of Aftronomy. The next Things I shall mention are some more concerning the useful Instruments Clocks.

Mr Huygens's second Pendulum Clock, dtferibed by Mr Bion, has five Wheels of 15, 24, 48, 48, and 80 Teeth, and 2 Pinions of 8 Teeth each. Which are too many. For three Wheels of 25, 72, and 80 Teeth, and 2 Pinions of 8 and 10 Teeth, or clfe 3 Wheels of 25, 64 and 90 Teeth, and those 2 Pinions, or 3 Wheels of 30, 60, and 80 Teeth, and those two Pinions, or three Wheels of 21, y$, and 80 Teeth, and 2 Pinions of 7 and 10 Teeth, will caufe one Revolution of Wheels, with the greateft Number of Teeth, to be per- formed in one Hour, or 3600 Seconds ; and thence to get a Revolution of 12 Hours, two Wheels of an equal Number of Teeth, with a Pinion of 6, and another Wheel of 72 Teeth, or a Pinion of 7, and a Wheel of 84, or a Pinion of 8, and a Wheel of 96, or a Pinion of 9, and a Wheel of 108 Teeth, will caufe one Revolution in 12 Hours. Note, The way of finding the Number of Teeth of the principal Wheels and Pinions of a Clock is founded up- on this Theorem, viz. that the Product of the Teeth of the Pinions multiplied by half the Number of Vibrations, is equal to the Product of the Teeth of all the Wheels •, and hence, by the Method of finding all the Divisors of a Number, may be obtained all the several dif- ferent Numbers of Teeth of the Wheels and Pinions that will produce one Revolution in the fame given Time.

The Length of a Pendulum is the Distance from it's Point of Sufpenfion to it's Centre of Ofcillation. A Pendulum, whose Length is 39.2 Inches will vibrate one of it's fmalleft Arches in one Second of Time. The Distance of the Centre of Ofcillation of a fimple Pen- dulum from it's Point of Sufpenfion, may be found by faying, As the Sum of the Weight of half the Rod, and the Weight of the Bob, is to the Sum of ~ of the Weight of the Rod, and the Weight of the Bob, So is the Distance from the Point of Sufpenfion, to the Centre of Gravity of the Bob, to the Distance of the Centre of Ofcillation from the Point of Sufpenfion. Hence the Centre of Ofcillation lies above the Centre of the Bob. But when the Weight of the Rod is exceeding small, the Centre of Ofcillation will be so near the Centre of Gravity of the Bob, or its Centre of Magnitude (supposing it to confift of uniform Matter of the fame Denfity) that all three may be taken for one another, without any fenfible Error. Twice the Time of one Vibration of a Pendulum, whose Centre of Ofcillation defcribes the ftiorteft circular Arch pofiible, is equal to the Time of a Body's perpendicular fall by the Force of Gravity, through a Space twice the Length of the Pendulum. The Times of the Vibrations of two Pendulums of different Lengths, when their Centres of Ofcillation defcribe the fmalleft circular Arches pofiible, are in the fubduplicate Ratio of the Lengths of the Pen- dulums. Hence it is eafy to find the Length of a Pendulum that shall perform one of it's least Vibrations in a given Time: Suppose any given Number of Seconds. For it is but fay- ing, As the Square of 60 Seconds, is to the Square of the given Number of Seconds, So is 39.2 Inches to the Length of the Pendulum wanted. The Time of the Vibration of a Pen- dulum, whose Centre of Ofcillation defcribes any Arch of a Circle, will be to the Time of the Vibration of the least Arch pofiible, nearly as the vibrating Arch is to twice it's Chord. Hence because the Times of the perpendicular Fall of all Bodies, through any Chords of the fame Circle, are all equal between themfelves ; the Times of the Vibration of a Pen- dulum, defcribing small Arches of a Circle, not much different from their Chords, may be taken as equal between themfelves, viz. equal to the Time of one Vibration of it's fmalleft Arch. But fincc these Times of the Vibrations of the small Arches are not exactly and geo- metrically equal to one another, the longer Arches being really a longer Time defcribing than the fhorter ; and as many small Errors, feparately confidered, do not deferve Notice, yet a great many put together, must be taken Notice of and avoided ; and for this Mr Huygens, in his llorologhim Ofcill. propofes a Remedy, viz. by making the Centre of Ofcillation 01 the Pendulum defcribe the Curve of the Cycloid, inftead of the Arch of a Circle by means of two other equal Cycloids, by which Contrivance all the Vibrations, both great and ftnall, will be performed in (he fame Time ; and the Time of any Vibration in this Cycloid is to the Time of the perpendicular Fall through the Length of the Pendulum, as the .Circumference of a Circle is to twice the Side of the Square inferibed in that Circle. Note, The Demonftra- tions of the major Part of what is here said about Pendulums are given by Mr Huygens and others •, and the Pendulum is supposed to move in a Vacuum free from the external Refi- ftance of the Air, or any other Fluid in it.

Sir Ifaac Newton, in the fixth Station of the second Book of his Mathematical Principles of Natural Philofophy, fays, that all the Ofcillations in the Cycloid of a Pendulum, moving in a Fluid which refifts it*s Motion in the Ratio of the Velocity will be ifochronal. And if the Medium a Pendulum moves in refifts it in the dup'icate Ratio of the Velocity, the very fliort Ofcillations are the more ifochronal, and the fhorteft of all are performed nearly in the fame Times as in Vacuo, and the Times of them that are performed in greater Arches, are fomewhat greater. And also the Times of all Ofcillations, both great and small, feem to be pro- longed by the Motion of the Medium the Pendulum fwings in. This is only Theory. But in the general Scholium Sir Ifaac deduces from some Experiment he made with Pendulums, that the Refiftance of the Air to Globes moving in it, when they move fwiftly, is nearly in the duplicate Ratio of the Velocity, but when flowly, a little greater than in that Ratio. He also' fays, that the Refiftance of Globes moving in the Air is nearly in the duplicate Ratio of their Diameters, and makes the Refiftance of the Rod of small Pendulums to be lb confiderable, as to be more than one third Part of the Refiftance of the whole Peni.uium. He makes the Refi- ftance of a Pendulum vibrating in Water, to it's Refiftance when vibrating in Air, to be as 5%$ is to 1 ', &JV. from all which, joir.d to other Conficterations, we may certainly conclude, that the Refiftance of a Pendulum with a globular Bob, when fwinging in the Air, caufes the Times of the Vibrations to be longer than they would be in vacuo, and that the denfer the Air is, the longer will be their Times of j^efcription •, and the fame is true of lenticular Bobs, although in a less Degree, because these Bobs meet with less Refiftance from the Air than fpherical ones of the fame Breadth.

Again, the late Dr Derbam, at Numb. 480. of the Pbilofopbical Tranfaclions, for the Year 1736, recites some Expcnmt nts he made on Pendulums vibrating in vacuo, and fays, that the Arches of Vibrations in Vacuo were larger than in the open Air, or in the Receiver before it was exhaufted. That the Enlargement or Diminution of the Arches of Vibrations were conftantly proportional to the Quantity of Air, or Rariety or Denfity of it, which was left in the Receiver of the Air-Pump •, and as the Vibrations were larger or fhorter, so the Times were accordingly, viz: 1" in an Hour (lower, when the Vibrations were largeft, and less and less as the Air was re-admitted, and the Vibrations fhortened. But notwithstanding (fays he) the Times were flower, as the Vibrations were, he had great Reason to conclude, that the Pendulum moved really quicker in Vacuo than in the Air; because the fame Difference or Enlargement of the Vibrations (as ; of an Inch on each side) would caufe the Movement in- ftead of 1" in an Hour to go 6 V or 7" flower in the fame Time, as he found by nice Expe- riments. The Doctor also fays, that the Length of the Rod of a Pendulum, he found by- trial was increafed by the Summer Heat -.'- part of an Inch. All this from Dr Derham.

Hence the Refiftance of the Air imift certainly be a confiderable Obftacle to the equable go- ing of a Clock, although this Caufe has been mostly difregarded by our most able Clock-Ma- kers -, and accordingly, the Irregularities in the going of a Clock are caused principally. r. By the Lengthening of the Pendulum, or its fhortening by heat and cold. 2. By the Lengthening the Arch defcribed by it's Centre of Ofcillation, or it's fhortening, caused by the greater or less Clcannefs of the Clock, and the greater or less Weight, or Force of the Springs giving Motion to the Clock. 3. By the greater or less Denfity of the Air, (or other fluid mixed with it) causing the Times of the Vibrations to be increafed or leffened, in pro- portion to that Denfity. 4. The Pendulum Clocks greater or less Distance from the Centre of the Earth.

It has been commonly said, that Clocks go fafter in cold Weather than they do in warm Weather, because the Pendulum in cold Weather defcribes less Arches, and is fhorter than in warm Weather. But this can only be true, when the Pendulum vibrates in Vacuo, viz, free from any external Refiftance, or when this Refiftance is always unalterable. But in dry hard frofty Weather, when the Air is very denfe, and mixed with innumerable small icy Particles, (the Mercury in the Barometer being very high) the Pendulum may be so much refi- lled as the Times of the Vibrations caused thereby, may exceed the Times arifing from the leffcning of the small Arches defcribed, and the fhortening the Pendulum, both taken toge- ther. And then a Clock will go flower in such cold Weather rather than fafter. The Dutcb, who formerly wintered at Nova Zembla, could not make any of their Clocks go ; and Captain Midiikton (fee the Pbilofopbical TranfacJions, Numb. 465.) who wintered in the Year 1741, at Prince of Wales's Fort on Cburcbill River in Hudfon's Bay, fays, the Cold hindered the going of all Watches but one of Mr Grabaw's, which went afways too flow by 15".

As the fwinging of a Pendulum between the two cyclojdal Cheeks removes one of the Ob- ftacles to the equable going of a Clock, so does it's fwinging in Vacuo another ; and the other Obftacle arifing from the lengthening or fhortening of the Pendulum by heat and cold, has been endeavoured to be overcome by making the Pendulum partly of Wood* and partly of Metal, so that the one may be as much contracted by heat, as the other is lengthened, and thereby the Pendulum preferve the fame Length in all VicifTitudes of heat and cold.' Mr George Graham (in the Philosophical Tranfaftions, Numb. 392.) endeavours to do this by a glass or brafs Tube of Mercury for a Pendulum, inftead of a Rod and Bob. But I think ha fails here, as well as in his Method to know the going of a Clock in an Air of the fame Tem- perature by means of a Thermometer. For a Barometer, and perhaps Hygrometer, fhould be added in order to obtain the principal End of bell knowing and avoiding the Irregularities of the going of a Clock.

I mall conclude this Article upon Clocks with only mentioning two uncommon Treatifes upon them, the one in Latin, and the other in French -, in the former of which Treatifes is a Contrivance to measure Time equably, by a Motion caused by three Weights, two of which form two perpetual Levers, by the means of which the third Weight is balanced, and these two Levers Rest upon the Wheel of the Axis, which Axis fhews the Minutes, Seconds, and Hour, by means only of an Index. And what is peculiar in this Invention is, that the Time it measures is not really in itfelf the fame as that of common Clocks, nor is it a Pendulum, but another Thing, whose Motions are equable and regulated, as is that of a Pendulum j and besides, it will move in all Situations, either horizontal, perpendicular, and oblique. And therefore such a Contrivance as this has a Profpect of going well at Sea, and thereby being helps towards finding the Longitude. In the French Treatife you have seventeen Contri- vances of Clocks, some of which are diverting enough, having small brafs Balls perpetually dropping through Holes, and out again -, others defcend upon an inclined Plane (though these are not new Contrivances) •, others are Hour-GlafTes, that turn up of themfelves as foon as they are run out ; another is a celeftial Globe, turning about upon the Shoulders of an Atlas •, another has the Hours placed horizontally, and another upright, &c. The two Treatifes are,

Mat. Campani de alemenis Horologium fob nature tnotu atque ingenio dimetiens tif numerans momenta temperis conftantiffime &lt;zoualia. Romas, 1677. Quarto.

Recuil a" outrages curieufe ou Defcription du cabinet de M. de Servire ; a Lyons, 1719. Quarto.

XIII. Of concave Mirrors or Speculums.

1. The Focus of parallel Rays is contained between the 4th and 5th Part of the Diameter of the great Circle of the Sphere of which the Speculum is a Segment ; and fo, 2. The Focus of one of these fpherical Speculums is not a Point, but a small round Solid of such a Breadth. 3. The Diameter of the Aperture of one of these concave fpherical Speculums, fhould not be a Chord of more than 18 Degrees of the Arch of the great Circle whose Segment that Speculum is. 4. Metalline Speculums are not so eafy to polifh as Glass ones quicksil- vered over on the back-side, nor do they reflect so much Light. 5. Thefe Instruments burn beft when they are cold. 6. So that when they are expofed to the Meridian Sun in clear frofty Weather their Effects are greateft. 7. In the Focus of any of them directed to the Sun at Noon-Day there is not the least Appearance of a lucid Image, unlefs it falls upon an opake Body, and yet there is in that Place, and in some of the beft of them, a Fire so in- tenfely hot, that Stones are inftantly melted by it and turned into Glass. 8. If the Back, of a concave Glass Speculum be covered over with a very white Composition of Tin and Mercury, the Reflection of the Image of the Sun from the Focus will be so strong, that the Eye will not be able to bear it's Brightnefs. 9. If a Piece of white Paper be put in the Focus of a large Concave of this kind, so as to receive the contracted Image of the Moon, when mining at full on the Meridian in a clear Winter's Night; you will have so refulgent a Light that the strongeft Eyes will not be able to bear it; and yet in the Focus there will be no Heat at all, inftead thereof there will be found a very piercing cold. 10. The Heat of the Focus of a Concave-Speculum will be lefTened, when acting upon any Thing laid upon a black Body in that Focus. 11. Whether, if the concave Surface of a Speculum were co- vered with some black polifhed Subftance, the Effect of it's focal Heat would be lefTened. 12. The Rays reflected from the yellow Colour of Gold are vaftly refulgent, as has been found by a wooden Concave polifhed, and nicely covered over with Leaf-Gold, which burn- ed with an incredible Power •, as did another covered over with Pieces of yellow Straw very accurately fitted together. Hence the different Colours of a Speculum caufes different focal I leat.

The most eminent burning Concaves that we are certain have ever as yet been made, are those of Manfred Septala at Milan ; who is said by Scottus, to have made a parabolical Spe- culum, that would burn almost at the Distance of 15 or 16 Paces ; those of the Fillet's at Lyons, whereof one is of Metal, weighing about 400 Pounds ; the concave and convex Sides Sides are fpherical, the Diameter of the Aperture 43 Inches ; that of the Sphere whereof it is the Segment 14 Feet, the focal Distance 3 ~ Feet, and the focal Depth is half an Inch. By the focal Heat of this Instrument, Metals, Stone, Bricks, Allies, &c. are melted and turned into Glass. (Sec our Philosophical Tranfaclions, Numb. 6. and the Paris Diary of

t | le j&gt;arned for the Month* of December, Anno 1675.) And, Laftly, Those of Mr Tfchirn- baus, whose burning Effects are defcribed in the Acla Eruditorum, publifhed ztLeipJick for Jan. '1687, The Diameter of the Aperture of this Speculum was almost three Leipfick Yards ; it was made of Copper Plates not much exceeding the Back of a common Knife in thickness, and the Focus was two Yards distance from the Speculum. In imitation of these Speculums of Mr Tfcbimbausy a certain celebrated Artift at Drefden, made larger burning Concaves of Wood, which produced Effects no less wonderful. Even some have made large Concaves of this fort, by properly placing 30, 40, or more square Pieces of concave or plain Specu- lums, on the under Surface of a wooden Concave, whose Effects were not much less than if the Surface had been covered all over with them ; and after this manner may polyhedrous burning Concaves, either fphencal or parabolical, of a vaft Size be made.

In the Philosophical Tranfaclions, at Numb. 483. in the Year 1747, there is an Account of a Mirror of one Mr Buffon, a Frenchman, confifting of a great Number of small plain Mir- rors, each of about 4 by 3 Inches square, fixed at about 4 of an Inch from one another, up- on a large wooden Frame about fix Feet square, ftrengthened with many crofs Bars of Wood for the mounting these Mirrors ; each of them has three moveable Screws, which the Opera- tor commands from behind, so contrived that the Mirror can be inclined to any Angle in any Direction that meets the Sun ; and by this means the folar Image of each Mirror is made to coincide with all the Rest. Twenty-four of these Mirrors thus placed, in a few Seconds of Time fet fire to a Composition of Pitch and Tow at the Diffance of 66 French Feet. Also a fort of Polyhedron, confifting of 168 small Mirrors, or fiat Pieces of Glass of fix Inches square each, fet fire to some Beach Boards at the Distance of 150 Feet. This was done by the Marquis Nicolini. And in another Tranfaction of the Royal Society, Numb. 489, for the Year 1748, the fame Mr Buffon fays, he has made a polyhedron Speculum fix Feet broad, and as many high, which burns Wood at the Distance of 200 Feet ; melts Tin and Lead at the Distance of about 120 Feet, and Silver at 50 Feet •, and besides, fays, that Heat is not proportional to Light, nor do the Rays come from the Sun in parallel right Lines.

Whether the burning Speculums ot Archimedes and Proclus, by which they are said to have burned the Enemy's Ships at a Distance, (fee Zonara's Annal. Tzetza'% variarum Hijioriarum, Chiliad. 2. Galen 's Book de Temper amenlis \ and others of the Antients) were contrived af- ter some such manner, or whether they be not rather fabulous, I leave others to judge. As to myfelf, 1 cannot affcrt, whether it be true or falfe, that Archimedes and Proclus could have made Speculums to produce such great Effects.

If a Light be fet in the Focus of a concave fphcrical Speculum, the Rays are parallel after Reflection •, so that the Light of a Candle placed in the Focus, will be strongly projected to a confiderable Distance, whereby one may be enabled even to fee to read at the Distance of %o or 40 Yards.


THE CONCLUSION

I. The Comparifon of the Englifh, French, Rhynland, and Roman Foot.

F the Englifh Foot be i ; the French Foot will be 1.0654 ; the Rhynland Foot
1.0284; the Roman Foot 0.970, expRested in Decimal Fractions. The above



*M Proportion of the Englijh and French Foot is taken from the Philosophical Tranf-
atlions, Numb. 465.

Mr Huygens, at page 152. of his Horolog. Ofcill. fays, the Paris or French Foot is to the Rhynland Foot as 144 is to 139 ; from whence it follows, that the Englijh Foot is to the Rhynland Foot as 1 is to 1.0284 nearly, as is expRested above •, for since the French Foot is to the EngliJJj Foot, as 1.0654 is to 1 ; it will be as 144 is to 1.0654, so is 139 to 1.0284 nearly. The Proportion of the Englijh Foot to the Roman Foot, viz. of 100 to qj y or 1 to .97, is taken from Dr Bernard's Treatife of Weights and Meafures. Merfennus they^- fuit fays, the Roman Foot that they have in their Library at Paris, taken from the Pave- ment of the Capitol at Rome is 14 Lines less than their Royal French Foot; that is, the Paris Foot Royal is to the Roman Foot, as 144 is to 130. He fays also, that a Roman Palm is £ of a Roman Foot ; and the Rhynland Foot used in many Places in Holland, which he fays is thought to be equal to the antient Roman Foot, is only fix Lines, or half an Inch less than their French Foot.

II. The Proportion of the Englijh Pound Troy, and French two Mark 16 Ounce Weight, is as 16 is 21. The Englijh Troy Ounce is to the French Ounce, as 64 is to 6^. The Eng- lijh Avoirdupois Pound and Ounce, is to the French two Mark Weight and Ounce, as 6^ is to 68 nearly. Theie Proportions are to be found in the aforsaid Philosophical Tranjaclion, Numb. 465.

III. A French Wine Gallon is to an Englifh Wine Gallon as 464.3328 is to 231, where- fore the former is very near double the latter. And a French Wine VeiTel called a Muid, containing 300 French Wine Pints, or ^y 4 French Gallons of eight Pints each, is 57.89 Eng- lijh Gallons of IVincheJler Meafure. A French Pint contains 48 French cubic Inches. As 1.2092 is to 1, so is a French cubic Inch to an Englijh cubic Inch.

IV. A Short Account of the Meafure of the Earth, by various Perfcns.

The Length of a Degree of a great Circle of the Earth, actually measured by Eratofthenes,
an antient Geographer of Alexandria, about 200 Years before Chrifl, (which Meafure was
approved of, made use of, and confirmed by Ptolemy himfelf ) is 500 Stadiums.

Some Arabian Mathematicians, at the Command of their King, about the Year %in, by
Miafurement, found a Degree to be ^6 of their Miles, and a little more.

Alhazen*



The CONCLUSION. 317

Alhazen, the Arabian Optician, who lived about the Year noo, fays, in his Eook dt Crepufculis, that the Compass of the Earth is 24000000 Paces.

Mr Snell, about the Year 161 5. a famous ProfcfTor of Mathematicks at Ley den in Holland, found a Degree by Meafurement to be 28500 Rhynland Perches, of 12 Rhynland Foot each.

Bur,

Parentis, in the 4th Chapter of his General Geography, has corrected this, and makes it to be only 2S300 Rhynland Perches. Parentis also gives, in that Chapter, the Manner used both by Eratofihenes and Snell, in the Meafurement of their Degrees of a great Circle of the Earth. Snell" s Meafure by himfelf is to be fecn in his Treatife, entitled, Eratofihenes Ba-

ta"jus.

Our Countryman Mr Norwood, a Reader of Mathematicks, in a Treatife publifhed at London, in the Year 1702. called the Sea-Man's Praftice, containing a fundamental Problem in Navigation experimentally verified, touching the Compass of the Earth and Sea, and the Quantity of a Degree in our EngliJJj Meafure, &c. In the Year 1635. with a Circumferen- tor and a Chain mtafuring the Diflance from London to York, and taking the Difference of Latitude of those two Places, with a Sextant of more than five Feet Radius, found a Degree to be 3709 Chains, or 367196 Englijh Feet.

Mr Picart, and other Frenchmen of the Royal Academy of Sciences, by Order of Lewis the XlVth, about the Year 1672, measured and found the Length of a Degree about Paris to be 57060 French Toifes of fix French Feet each. Flis Quadrant for finding the Differences of the Latitudes was 10 Feet Radius ; and that for finding the horizontal Angles of the Tri- angles of Verification 3 ,' French Feet, for he took his Lengths two Ways, by actual Mea- furement, and by Trigonometrical alculations of the Lengths of the Sides of several Tri- angles, in order for one way to prove the other. See the whole Operation (long and trouble- iome enough indeed, if compared to Mv Norwood's) in Mr Picart's Eook, called, La Me- fiire de la 'Tcrre ; or, in Dr Jurin'% Appendix to Varcnius's Geography.

Mr Cajfini, in the Year 1700, by Order of Lewis the XIV, repeating the fame Labour over again (likewise two Ways), carried a meridian Line of about 7 ~ Degrees, the whole Length of France through Paris, from Dunkirk to the Pyrencan Mountains on the Borders of Spain, and makes a mean Degree to be 57292 French Totles : He used a Sextant of 10 Feet, &c. See the Hiftory of the Academy of Sciences for the 1701, as also for the Year 1718.

The Frenchmen who, in the Year 1737, measured a Degree at Tornea, under the Arctick Circle, make it to be 5743*7 French Toifes. They used a Quadrant of 2 Feet Radius, with a Micrometer upon the Index, by means of which they have taken Angles to Seconds. (But this I am certain, the Nature of an Inflrument of that fhort Radius will not admit.) They had also a Brass Tclcfcope about nine Feet long, forming the Radius of a Limb or Arch of 5 ',- °, made by the late Mr Gc.o&gt;gC Graham, which they tiled in their Bufinefs. There is a Defcription of this ^nftrument at page 124. of tlr. Englijfj Tranflation of Mr Mau- pertuis's Treatife of the Figure of the Earth, determined from Observations made at the polar Circle. They measured upon a frozen River, with two Feet of Snow upon it, &c. with Rods of 30 French Foot long, and different Perfons measured a Length of 7406 Toifes five Feet to within four Inches, as they fay. See particularly in the above Treatife of Mr Maupertuis.

Now in order to reduce all these various Meafures into our Englifh ones, thereby to com- pare and make them useful, we mult get their reputed Proportions to ours. Mr Norwood, in his Sea-Man's Pratlice, page 5, tells us, that Herodotus, Suidas, and others, make a Sta- dium to be 600 Alexandrian Feet. And at page 6, he fays, that Here Mechanicus makes five Alexandrian Feet to be equal to fix Rontan Feet. But since above one Roman P'oot is to an EngliJJj Foot, as 972 is to 1000, therefore will one Alexandrian Foot be equal to 1.166 Eng- lijh Feet •, but as there are 500 Stadiums in a Degree, according to Eratofihenes and Ptolemy y and as 600 Alexandrian Feet is a S tadi um, there will be 300000 Alexandrian Feet in a De- gree, and so according to this 300000 x 1. 166 or 349800 will be the Number of EngliJJj Feet in a Degree, according to Eratofihenes, beimg 66.25 Miles. Note, Mr Norwood, in his Book abovementioned, has mi (look in faying, (page 6.) that the antient Roman Foot was greater than the Englijh Foot •, and so has Snell, and Varenius too.

Mr Norwood, in his Sea-Man's Practice (at page 29.) fays, that according to Alphraganus y the Quantity of an Arabian Mile was 4000 Cubits, or 6000 Arabian Feetj and so the Quan- tity of a Degree, according to the Arabian Mathematicians of ^6 of their Miles, as mention- ed above, will be 336000 Arabian Feet •, but, fays Mr Norwood, the Length of their Foot is fomething uncertain ; they only fay, it is the Length of 96 Barley-Corns laid side by side. Now this being granted, I myfelf found upon Trial, that 23 Barley-Corns, laid side by side, extended nearly three Inches ; and lo, according to this, an Arabian Foot is to our Englijb Foot, nearly as 96 is to 92, or as 2 4 is to 23. Wherefore, as 23 is to 24, so is 336000 Arabian Feet, to 350608 Englijh Feet, in a Degree, or about 66.39 Englifij Miles. Now Mr Norwood reckons a Degree of this Meafurement to be much more, viz. 370222 Englijb Feet. But he was milted by Mr Snell, who fays, that by Trial he found one Rhynland Foot to be equal to 90 Barley-Corns laid side by side, and ^6 Rhynland Feet to be about 91 4

4 N ' Ev^Jb



3 i8 the CO N C LU S 10 N.

Englijh Feet •, whereas the true Proportion of one Englijb Foot to one Rhynland one, is very
nearly as i to 1.0284.

Again, Alhazen's Account of 24000000 Paces in the whole Compass of the Earth and Sea may be nearly reduced to our Englijh Meaiures thus j there must be 66666 - r of these Paces in one Degree. And as a Pace is by all allowed to be five Feet, there must be 333^32 Ara- bian Feet in a Degree ; but since above it appears, that an EngliJJj Foot is to an Arabian Foot nearly as 23 is to 24, therefore then: will be 347825 Englijh Feet in one Degree of Alhazen's Compass of the Earth, being about 65.87 Englijh Miles. Mr Norwood at page 29. of his Sea-Man's Practice, makes this Degree to be more, viz. 367283 Englijh Feet. But herein he is also deceived by making 90 Arabian Feet equal to 99 4. Englifh ones, when 90 of them fhould but be equal to about 93.9 Englijh Feet.

Again, it is eafy to reduce Mr Snell's Meafure of 28500 Rhynland Perches to a Degree, in- to Englijh Feet, by having given the Proportion 1 to 1.0284 of an Englijh Foot to a Rhynland one, for there will be 342000 Rhynland Feet in one Degree •, and so 351712 Englijh Feet, or taking Varenius's Corrections of Snell's Meafure, viz. being to Snell's in the Proportion of 235 to 283, a Degree of Mr Snell's will be 349244 Englijh Feet, or about 66.1 Englijh Miles.

Again, Mr Picart's Meafure of a Degree reduced to Englijh Feet, from the Proportion 1,0654 to 1, of a French Foot to an Englijh one, will be 364710 Englijh Feet, or 69.07 Em- UJh Miles. Mr CaJJini's Meafure of 57437 Toifes, will be 367160 Englifh Feet, or about 6cj\ Miles. And, lastly, The Frenchmens Meafure of 57437 Toifes, to a Degree under the Ar- dick Circle, will be 36-^656 Englijh Feet, or about69.68 EngliJJj Miles. Now all these various Meafures of a Degree in Englijh Feet, when brought together, will ftand thus :

Eng. Feet.

1. Eratojlhenes or Ptolomy's — — — — — — — 349800

2. The Arabian Mathematicians, or Abeljeda's — — — — — 350608

3. Alhazen's ■ — — — — — — — — — — — 347825

4. Snell's corrected — — — — — — — — — — 349244

5. Mr Norwood's — — — — — - — — — — 367196

6. Mr Picart's — — — — ■ — — — — — — — 364710

•:. Mr Cajfini's — — — — — — — — . — — — 367160

8. Mr Maupertuis's — — — — — — — — — — 367656

Upon which we may obferve, that Eratojlhenes and Snell's Meafures of a Degree, do not differ from one another, more than 566 Englijh Feet, or about 188 Yards, although very differently obtained, which is some fort of a Confirmation of their being both right, what- ever others have said to the contrary. Likewise Abeljedas's Meafure does not differ from Eratojlhenes but 308 Feet, and trom Snell's but 1444 Feet, the former being 266 Yards, and the latter about 481 Yards. Nor does Alhazen's Meafure, which is the least of all, differ about half a Mile from Abeljedas's •, therefore the first four, and most antient of these Mea- fures of a Degree, are not so unequal, as to be a fort of Argument for their being rejected. The other four modern Meafures of a Degree, by Mr Norwood and the Frenchmen, are indeed greater, but difitr from one another, more or less. For Example, Mr Norwood and Picart differ 2446 Englijh Feet. Note, in page 33, of Mr Norwood's Sea-Man's Praclice, it is said Mr Picart's Meafure of a Degree is 365184 Englijh Feet, as taken from the Philojo- fhical tranjaclions, Numb. 112. But this is 434 Englijh Feet too much. Mr Maupertuis's Meafure is 901 Englijh Feet more than Picart's.

Hence, allowing the Earth and Sea to be one Sphere, (excepting all Mountains, and Ca- vities not exceeding two or three Miles in heighth Or depth, and which bare no fenfible Pro- portion to the whole Diameter,) all the abovefaid different Meafures of a Degree cannot be true •, nor is it eafy to know which is the trueft, if it be confidered, 1. That the Antients knew as well how to measure Distances upon the Ground, as the Moderns. 2. That their Plains being so extenfive, upon which they measured the Distances for this Bufinefs, viz. those of Alexandria and the Fields of Mefopotamia, made their Work eafier and less liable to Error, than the Lengths measured for the fame Purpofe by Mr Norwood and the French, in crook- ed Ways, uneven Ground, or upon Ice covered with Snow. Moft of these uneven Lengths being apt to be fet down too great, without much Caution, Diligence, proper Correction, and trigonometrical Computation and Verification-, and this trigonometrical Meafure by means of Angles near upon the Horizon is fubject to Uncertainty, by reason of the horizontal Refrac- tions, (fee Dr Nettkton's Account of this already mentioned by me) it giving the oppo- fite Bases of the Triangles too great in length. 3. I am of Opinion, the Antients could take the Latitude of a Place, and draw a meridian Line by their Gnomons, as exactly as any of the Moderns can do by their Sextants and Quadrants, armed with Telescopes. I do not find Mr Norwood had any Telescope to his Sextant more than of five Feet Radius that he used. More- over, Mr Hevelius would not use Telescopes to his Instruments, as thinking they added no- thing to the Exactnefs of their Use. But I think he was wrong in this. 4. The Abilities of most of the Meafurers, viz. Ptolemy (for at least he approved of that of 500 Stadiums to a

Degree. )



The CONCLUSION. 319

Degree.) Mr Snell, Mr Norwood, Picart, Cajfmi, and Maupertius, fufficiently appear by
their Works.

From what I have already said, and several other Considerations, I am so divided in my Opinion, as not to be certain which of those Meafures of a Degree is the trueft ; and if it were not for the Uncertainty of the exact Comparifon of an Alexandrian Foot to our Englijh one, I fhould be apt to think Ptolemy's .vleafure to be as true as any of them. Also Alhazen's Mea- fure mi^ht in reality come out to be nearer to the Rest, if we had the exact Proportion of an Arabian 'Foot to an Englifii Foot -, for the Comparifon by Barley-Corns is a little uncertain. However, as all the eight Meafures do not differ from one another more than about three Miles in a Decree. The Medium of them all feems to be the nearelt the Truth, and I think ought to be used as such, 'till it be found by many and good Experiments either to be more confirmed, or to be otherwise; and this Medium is about 67.3 Miles to a Degree. There are many other Accounts of the Meafure of a Degree to be feen in Authors of no moment to mention here.

V. Of the Notes which were promifed at the Beginning of the Book of Mathematical Injlru-
ments, together with a few inflrumental Conflruclions of Geometrical Problems.

An Ellipfis is a curve lined Space, made by cutting a right Cone or Cylinder through, by
any Plane, making an acute Angle with the Plane ot the Base of the Cone or Cylinder.

A fpiral Line may be thus defenbed If the infinite right Line AC revolves equally Fig. 25, round it's end A, and at the fame Time a Pnint B moves from A equably along that right Line, and the Velocities of the Line A C, and that of the Point B along it, be as the Circum- ference of a Circle is to its Diam ter, then will the Point B defcribe a fpiral Line, of an in- finite Number of Revolutions upon the Plane, whereon the right Line revolves. I have feen such a Spiral defenbed upon the Surface of a round revolving Table, by drawing a Piece of Chalk, or a Pencil, held in the Hand equably along that Surface from the Centre to the Cir- cumference. Note, There are many other Species of fpiral Lines besides this here ; but this is one of the most fimple. Or a fpiral Line may be obtained thus, by finding a great many Points through whicn it must pass. Let B D E (Fig. 26.) be a Circle, whose Centre Fig. 26. is A, and BE, F D, two Diameters croffing one another at right Angles infinitely continu- ed ; find a right Line M N equal to the Circumference of that Circle, either by making as 7 is to 22, so is the Diarmter to B '\ to M N or else by wrapping a String quite about the Cir- cumference. This done, divide the right Line M N into a great even Number of equal Parts Mp, and the Circumference of the Circle F B E into the fame Number of equal Parts by trial •, let B Q^be one of thele Parts, draw the Radius A Q^, and upon it take A P equal to the part Mp of the right Line M N, then will P be one Point of the Spiral, and dou- bling the Arch B Q_^, and drawing a Radius as before, upon this lay off from A, the double el" the Part M p of the Line M N, and another Point of the Spiral will be had ; and by a Repetition of these Operations, with the Triples, Quadruples, &c. of the equal Arches B Q^, and the equal Parts Mp. other Points will be obtained, through which the Spiral mutt pass. AD continued to 1, so that A P 1 be equal to ~ M N, or a the Circumfe- rence : A E to P 2, so that A P 2 be equal to ' M N •, A F to P 3, so that A P 3 be equal to|MN; A B to P 4, so that A P 4 be equal to M N, then will Pi, P 2, P 3, P4, be other Points of the Spiral. If A P be continued downwards, so that Ap be equal to A P 2 -j- A P, then will p be another Point. When Points enough fufficiently near be found, and properly joined, one Revolution A P 4 of the Spiral will be had j and another Revolu- tion will be obtained, by finding Points through which it must pass thus. Continue out A P to S, so that A S be — M N j- A P, then will S be one Point of this second Revolution of the Spiral. And thus may any Number of Points be found for this second Revolution. For a third Revolution A S must be — 2 M N -j- A P, and so on, then will S be a Point of a third Revolution.

Hence the Nature of this Spiral is such, that any Radius A P is equal to the correfpon- dent circular Arch B Q^, when the Spiral has but one Revolution-, when it has two, any Radius of it is equal to once the Circumference of the Circle B D E F, together with the cor- refpondent Arch B Q^of the Circle ; when three, equal to twice the Circumference, added to the correfpondent circular Arch B Q^, and so on.

Note, This Spiral may also be delcribed by a continued Motion, by means of a String in length equal to one or more Times the Circumference of the Circle B D E F, having a further additional Length equal to the Radius A B of that Circle; for if one end Q^of such a String be fattened to the end Q^, of a moveable Radius A Q^, and that String be wrapped about the Circumference of the Circle, when A B and A Qcoincide, and the other end A of that String be extended tightly down the fixed Radius A B, from B to A, (and there bent upwards) and that Radius A Quarrying the end Q^ of the String moves round from B to Q, &c. at the lame Time that the other end A of the String is perpetually drawn tightly up from A to P along that moveable Radius A Qjiow in the Situation A Q^ By this Motion the Point P, or end of the String, will defcribe the Spiral, for the part A P of the String is always equal to the Arch B O , which is difengaged from as much of the String as is equal to it in length.

The



3 2 o The CONCLUSION.

The Use of this Spiral is confiderable in the Solutions of some difficult Problems rela- ting to the Division of the Archts of Circles into any Number of equal Parts, or given Ra- tio's, rinding the sides of all regular Polygons. Dividing a Circle into two Segments that shall have a given Ratio, proving that the abfolute Quadrature of the Circle is impofii- ble, 65V.

Fig 27. An Example of one Use is as follows : To draw aright Line G Q^(Fig. 27.) from a given

Point G, in the Diameter HE, of a given Semicirle B QJi such, that it lhali divide the fame into two Segments B QJ3, G O^E, having the given Ratio of M to N.

Let A H P I be a part of a Spiral, as above such, that any Radius A P of it be equal to the correfpondent Arch B Qof the Semicircle B Q^E, then will A E continued out to cut the Spiral in J, be equal to the Length of the Arch B QE of the Semicircle. Make as M -j~ N : M : : A I : R. From the Centre A of the Semicircle, raife the Perpendicular A K — A G, and upon A K defcribe a Semicircle, take a right Line or Ruler in length equal to R, and always making it pass through the Centre A, move one end S of it along the Semicircle K S, 'till the other end P of it cuts the Spiral in P, and the Semicircle B QjE in O^, join GQ^, and the Bufinefs will be done ; for then will the Semicircular Space B Q^G be to E Q^G, in the given Ratio of M to N. The Demonftration is eafy, for A S is always equal to the Per- pendicular G L, drawn from G upon A Q, and the Space B QJj is always as the Arch B Q/f-G L ; that is, as A P ,-, S = R, Csfr.

Note, This Problem is otherwise constructed in Sir Ifaac Newton's Principia Maihem. Lib. I. by means of an Epicycloid, which he tells you there how to defcribe.

Fig. 18. To trifeel a given Angle A C B About the angular Point C, with any Semidiameter FC

or CG, defcribe a Semicircle F E G, cutting the side C A of the given Angle in E ; conti- nue out G F, and laying the Edge of a Ruler N E to the Point E, so turn it that the Part N M be equal to the Radius of the Circle, then will the Arch F M be 4 of the given Arch
E G, or the Angle F C M - A C B.

Fig. 29. To find two continual mean Proportionals between two given right Lines X and Y. Make the

rightangled Parallelogram A B C D, having its sides A B, AC, equal to the given right Lines X and Y, and defcribe a Circle about this Parallelogram, whose sides A C, A B, let be continued out, and laying the Edge of a Ruler E F to the Point D, turn the Ruler about 'till it's Edge so cuts the Circle in G, and the Continuations of A C, A B in E F, that the Parts E D, G F of that Edge be equal between themfelves, then will the four right Lines X, C E, B F, Y be continual Proportionals. Both these Problems are solid ones, as they are called, and cannot be conftructed geometrically by the Interferon of right Lines and Circles. There are many other Ways of conftrucling them by the conic Sections, well known to Geometricians ; but none eafier in the Practice than these two above given, being in effect by the Interferon of a Circle, and the Conchoid of Nicomedes, a famous curve Line, efteemed both by Archimedes and Sir Ifaac Newton, as the beff for the Conduction of solid Problems, with regard to the fhortnefs and facility of the Practice, the Curve itfelf be- ing almofl as eafily defcribed as the Circle ; and of such a Nature, that the part of a right Line drawn from any part of the Curve to the fixed Pole intercepted by a given right Line, viz. it's Afymptote, is of a given Magnitude.

A Parabola is a curve-lined plane Space, or Section, made by cutting a Cone by any plain Parallel, to any Plane touching the side of a Cone in a right Line. An Hyperbola is a Section or curve-lined plain Space, made by cutting a Cone, by a Plane not parallel to a Plane touching the side of that Cone in a right Line, nor palling through the Vertex of the Cone. Note, It is common to call the curve- lined Terminations of the Ellipfis, Parabola, and Hy- perbola, by these Names, inflead of these Planes of Section, which they really are. A Pa- rabola opens wider and wider infinitely, according as the Cone whereof it is the Section is more continued out, and so does an Hyperbola too. Although such a Section of one Cone only, as has been defcribed above, is ufually called an Hyperbola, yet it is but one part of an Hyperbola, ftrictly fpeaking, for there is another such similar Section made by cutting the opposite Cone by the fame Plane, that goes to make up one compleat Flyperbola. That is, an Hyperbola confifts of two opposite similar Parts, having their Convexities next to one another, and at some Distance from each other. The middle Point of which Distance is the Centre through which those two right Lines drawn to touch the Flyperbola at an infinite Di- ftance are called Afymptotes, and that Flyperbola whose Afymptotes are at right Angles to one another, is called an Equilateral Hyperbola, which of all the different Species is the most fimpie and useful.

The Ellipfis, Parabola, and Hyperbola, are called Conic Sections. If two parallel right Lines terminating in a Conic Section be bifected, and a right Line be drawn through the Points of Bifection meeting the Curve, either in one or two Points, this bifecting right Line is called a Diameter, which will bifect all Parallels to those first mentioned ones. Thefe Paral- lels are called Ordinates to that Diameter, and in the Ellipfis and Flyperbola, the middie Poinc of any Diameter is called the Centre, and that Diameter drawn through the Centre parallel to an Ordinate to any Diameter, is called a conjugate Diameter. That Diameter whose Ordi- nates are at right Angles to it, is called an Axis, and the Point wherein it meets the Curve, is called the Vertex. In the Parabola each Diameter meets the Curve in one Point only, and they are all parallel to the Axis. If any two parallel right Lines terminating in a conic Section be cut by another right Line terminating in that Section, the Ratio of the two Rectangles un- der the Segments of those two Parallels, will be equal to the Ratio of the two Rectangles under the two Segments of the cutting Line and one Parallel, and the Segments of that cutting Line and the other Parallel. And so if this cutting Line be a Diameter, patting through the Centre, the Rectangle under the two Parts of it, cut by any Ordinate, will be to the Square of that Ordinate in a conftant Patio, viz. as the Square of that Diameter is to the Square of the conjugate Diameter, or as that Diameter is to a third Proportional to those two conjugate Diameters which third Proportional is called the Latus retium of those Diameters. But in the Parabola, the Square of any Ordinate is equal to the Redlangle under the Segment of the Diameter intercepted between the Vertex and that Ordinate, and a right Line of a conftant Magnitude, called the Latus retlum, or Parameter of that Diameter. Moreover, in the Hy- perbola and Ellipfis, the Tangent at the Extremity of any Semi-ordinate to a Diameter, and that Semi-ordinate will so cut that Diameter, as that the Rectangle under the Distances of the two Points of Section from the Centre, will be always equal to the Square of half that Dia- meter. And in the Parabola any Tangent cuts a Diameter continued out, as far beyond the Vertex of that ) Tiameter, as the Semi-ordinate of that Diameter, drawn from the Point of Con- tact is distant from the said Vertex. In the Hyperbola two infinite Tangents, viz. the Afymp- totes crofs one another in the Centre •, and if it be made as the Semi-axis is to the Distance from the Centre of any Semi-ordinate, so is that Semi-ordinate to a fourth Proportional, and a Per- pendicular raifed at one Vertex of the Axis be made equal to that fourth Proportional j a right Line drawn through the Centre and the Extremity of that Perpendicular will be one Afymp- totc, and the other Afymptote will be had by drawing a right Line through the Centre, ma- king the fame Angle with the Axis as the first Afymptote does. The Foci of an Ellipfis are two fixed Points in the great Axis equally distant from the Centre, by the Length of a mean Proportional between the Sum and Difference of T , the great and 4 the letter Axis. And two rio-hc Lines drawn from those two Foci to any Point of the Curve will be equal to the greater Axis. But in the Hyperbola, the Foci are two Points in the tranfverfe Axis equally distant from the Centre, such that the Difference of two right Lines drawn from them to any Point of the Curve will be equal to the traverfe Axis. In the Parabola, the Focus is a Point in the Axis distant from the Vertex by \ of the Latus rettum. In the Ellipfis and Hyperbola, two right Lines drawn from the Foci to any Point of the Curve, make equal Angles with a Tangent dr.ivvn through that Point. In the Parabola, a Line drawn from the Focus to the Point of Contact of a Tangent, will make the fame Angle with that Tangent as a Diameter drawn through that Point of Contact does. In the Hyperbola, if any right Line be drawn cutting the Alyrnptotes, as well as the Curve in two Points, the two Parts of this Line intercepted, be- tween the Curve and one Atymptote, and the Curve and the other Afymptote, will be equal to one another. So that if this Line cuts the Curve in two Points infinitely near to one ano- ther, viz. is a Tangent to the Curve •, the two Parts of that Tangent between the Point of Contact, and the Afymptotes will be equal to one another. And all Triangles made by such a Tangent, and the two Segments (from the Centre) of the Afymptotes cut off by that Tangent, will be equal to one another. Wherefore every Triangle made by a Semi-diameter drawn to the Point of Contact, by half of that Tangent, and by the Segment of one Afymptote cut oft" by that half of the Tangent, will be of a conftant Magnitude. And if from any Point of an Hyperbola a right Line be drawn upon one Afymptote parallel to the other Afymp- tote, the Parallelogram under that right Line, and the Segment (from the Centre) of the Afymptote cut by it, will be of a conftant Magnitude.

I have collected together these few Definitions, and fundamental Properties of the Conic Sections, for the Ule of those who may have fomeOccafion for them, either in the Conftructions of Problems, or for other Purpofes, and have not the Books at hand, which treat of them fully, and as they lhould be ; nor even know, perhaps, that the Conic Sections have such Properties.

The eafieft Way of defcribing by one Operation a Parabola and Equilateral Hyperbola by means of Points, is thus,

Upon the infinite right Line C E (Fig. 30. Numb. 1, 2.) affume two Points A and F, and F'g- 3»» through A draw the right Line A B perpendicular to C E. In C E from A take any Point P on the contrary side of A that F is, for the Parabola, but on the fame side for the Equilate- ral Hyperbola •, and in this last Cafe greater, at such a Distance from A, that F P be greater than A F, and from P (Numb. 1.) take the Point Q^in A B distant from P by the Length F P-, but in (Numb. 2.) distant from F by the Length F P. This done, about the Points Q^ F (Numb. 1.) and Q^P (Numb. 2.) with the Distance F P defcribe two Arches interfering one another at M, and M will be one Point of a Parabola G A H, or equilateral hyper- bola G F H. The former pafling through the. Point A, and the latter through the Point F. About the Centre A with the Distance A M defcribe a Circle cutting the right Line C E, or Axis of the Parabola or Hyperbola in the Points 1 1, and make one Arch I m (Numb, i.) and three Arches I m (Numb. 2.) equal to the Arch I M, then will m be another Point ot the Parabola, and m t m t m, thre« other Points -of the opposite Hyperbola's G F H, g f h. and by a Repetition of many more such Operations, a Number of Points M, m, may be found To near each other, as that being properly joined, a Parabola, or equilateral Hyper- bola fufficiently exact, will be formed.

A Parabola, Hyperbola, and Ellipfis, may be defcribed by a continued Motion. All three by the fame way of Operation varied, by means of a moveable Square anil moveable Ruler. For if the Angle of a Square be fattened to a given Point, so that the Square be moveable about the fame, and the Interfection of one side of that Square and a Ruler movino- parallel to itfelf, be carried along a given right Line •, the Interferon of the other side of that Square, with that Ruler, will defcribe part of the Curve of the Parabola. But if the moveable' Ruler, inftcad of moving parallel to itfelf, moves about a given fixed Point, and the fixed right Line be between this Point and the angular Point of the moveable Square, such an Interfection of one side of that Square, and this moveable Ruler, will defcribe part of the Curve of an Hyperbola. If the two fixed Points aforsaid be both on the fame side, the fixed right Line, part of the Curve of the Ellipfis will be defcribed by such a Motion! This Manner of defcribing the Curves of the Conic Sections is well known to Geometricians. The following Way of defcribing any Hyperbola, by a continued Motion (being that of Mr Be Witt's in his Element a Linearum Curvarum) by having the Afymptotcs AE, A F (Fig.

Fig. 31. 31.) given, as alio a Point B, through which the Curve is to pals is thus ; from B draw

B G parallel to A E cutting A F in G, take a Bevel D C F, whose Angle C is equal to the given Angle A. In the side C Q^of the Bevel take the Point Qjit the fame Dittance from C, as G is from A, and at Q_ fallen the end Q^ of a Ruler QJ3 always pafling through the fixed Point B. This done, move the side CF of the Bevel along the Afymptote A F, and the Interfection P of the Ruler QJB, and the other side CD of the Bevel, will defcribe the part I B K of an Hyperbola pafling through the Point B ; and whose Afymptotes are A E AF.

Prob. I. The Point B being given, as also the Angle E A F, and the Space S, to draw a

??g. 32. right Line BQ^ to form the Triangle AP Q^ equal to the given Space S. (Fig. 32.) This

is a noted plain Problem, but I take the eafiefl Way of conftfucting it to be by a parallel Ruler, thus : Make some Triangle A C D equal to S, then take a parallel Ruler, and Jettirg it's two opposite Sides P C, D Q^, always pass through the given Points D, C, so move it, that a Ruler laid from B shall interfect those it's two opposite sides at P and Qjvhere these sides cut the sides A E, A F of the given Angle, then will the Triangle A P QJ)e equal to the Space S.

Note, The Hyperbola within it's Afymptotes is the only curve Line that is natural to the Conftruction of the Problem above, and a small Knowledge in the Nature of this Curve, is alone fufficient for any one of himfelf, to find out several different Conflructions of the Pro- blem, as well Mechanical as Geometrical, without any other Affiftance, the Problem being in effect only to draw a Tangent to a given Hyperbola within the Afymptotes from a given Point.

Fig. 33. Prob. II. The Lengths of the three contiguous Chords A B, B C, CD (Fig. ^.) inferibed

in a Semicirle being given : to find the Diaweter of that Semicircle.

This is an old solid Problem, and it may be conftructed thus : Draw two right Lines (Numb. 2.) BH, BF, at ri-ght Angles to one another, and make A Bequal to one of the given Chords A B. About the Point B with a Distance B C equal to the second given Chord B C defcribe a Circle G C H. This done take a Square A C D, one side C D of which is equal to the third given Chord C D. Let the other side A C of this Square pass through the given Point A, while the end D of the side C D moves along the right Line B F, 'till that Square becomes so fituate, that it's angular Point C falls upon the Circumference of the Circle GC H-, then will the right Line A D, joining the given Point A, and the end D of the Square thus fituate, be the Diameter required of the Semicircle.

fig. 34. Prob. III. Given the Base AB (Fig. 34. Numb. 1.) of a Triangle ABC, the Aggregate of

the sides AC, B C, and the Length of a Perpendicular BD to the side B C drawn from one of the Angles B to the other side A C, to confirucl the Triangle.

This is an old hypersolid Problem of Mr IVard's, in his Compendium of Algebra, and is thus conftructed. Draw (Fig. 34. Numb. 2.) two right Lines F B, B G, at right Angles to one another. Make B D equal to the given Perpendicular B D, and about the Point B with the Distance B F equal to the given Base A B defcribe a Circle A F H ; this done, take a Thread in length equal to the given sides A C, B C taken together, and fattening one end of it to the Point B, partly extend it along the right Line B C from B to C, and partly from C through the given Point D, 'till it's other end A falls upon the Circumference of the Circle A F H. Join the Points A and B, and the Triangle ABC required will be formed.

3« 2 , 6 Prob. IV. Given the Area of a Triangle ABC, (Fig. 36.) as also it's Perimeter, when it is

inferibed in a given Circle, to confirucl such a Triangle.

This is an old solid Problem to be feen in Mr Ozanam's Mathematical Dictionary, and is thus conftructed. Let a Line P be equal to the given Perimeter of the Triangle, and a Line Qj:he side of a Square equal to the given Area ; take three double Squares A E B E H, A D C D H, and C F B F H, having three equal sides E H, F H, D H, each being a third Propor- tional to 4 P and Q^, and faften their three ends H together, so as to be moveable about H like a Joint. And at any Point A of the Periphery of the given Circle, place two of the oth&lt; r sides A B, A C of those Squares, so as to be moveable about the said fixed Point A. This done, so move the three Squares about, as that the Interferons of the sides A B, AC, with BC 'always fall in the Circumference of the given Circle, at the fame Time that a Thread equal to P may be extended tightly from A to B, B to C, and from C to A again. When this happens, the three sides A B, BC, AC of the three double Squares will be so fituate, as to form an inferibed Triangle ABC in the given Circle, whofc Circuit shall be equal to the given right Line P, and Area equal to the Square of the given right Line Q.

Note, Mr Ozanam first obtains an algebraic cubic Equation, in order to conftruct this Problem by the InrerfecYion of a Parabola, and the given Circle, but such a cubic Equation may much eafier be obtained after the following Manner. (See Numb. 2. Fig. 36.) Let the Fig. 36, unknown side AC of the Triangle required be called 2 x, and A C be bifected in G. Let G D be called z, and suppose DEF to be a Circle inferibed in the Triangle ABC fought. Let A B f- B C --j- A C given be = 4 a, and 2 ab — to the given Area of the Triangle ABC, also let d be equal to the Diameter of the given Circle wherein the Triangle ABC is to be in- feribed ; then, (by the Nature of the inferibed Circle G E F) will AE = AD, E B — B F, C D -= C F, and so E B -j- B F = 4 a — 4 x, and F B ~ E B = 2 a — 2 x. Wherefore A C = 2 .v, C B = 2 a -T- x — z, AB = 2 a — x -\- z. Therefore by the old Rule of finding the

Area of a Triangle by having the three sides, it will be &lt;J 2 a — 2 x xx ~- { - zx x — z x 2 a the Nature of the Circle ABC, the Rectangle under A C and CB"a Rectangle under the Diameter, and the Perpendicular drawn from C upon the opposite Side A B of the Triangle

Prob. V. To conftitute a Triangle F P G (Fig. 35.) such that the three sides F P, F G, P G, Fig. 35. and the Perpendicular F H drawn from the Angle F upon the third side P G, shall be four arith- metical Progreffwnals

This is the J4th Problem of Sir Ifaac Newton*s univerfal Arithmetick, and a solid Problem. AfTume any right Line FG for one of the sides of the Triangle required, and with the ends F and G of it, as Foci, with an Axis A B equal to twice that side, defcribe a Semi-El- lipfis A D B whose Centre is C, erect; the Perpendicular G M upon the Focus G, equal to C F or C G, and upon M G defcribe a Semicircle M N G ; this done, take a Ruler G N P always moveable about the Point G, and so turn it about, that the part N P of it beyond the Point N, where it cuts the Semicircle M N G intercepted between that Semicircle and the Ellipfis, be equal to the given focal Diflance C G, or the Diameter G M of the Semicircle. Join the right Line F P, then will F P G be the Triangle to be conftructed.

Upon F G defcribe the Semicircle F H G. Now it eafily appears from the Conflruction, and the Nature of the Ellipfis, that F P, F G, and G P, are continual arithmetical Progref- fionals, for F P--j-PG = AB=2F G, and from the Nature of the two Semicircles F H G, M N G t it is eafily proved that the Chord GN of the Semicircle G M H is equal to one half of the Chord F H, (or perpendicular toGP) for because of the right Angles F H G, G N M, as also C GM, the right angled Triangles G N M, E F H will be equiangular. Where- fore F G : G M :: F M : G N :: 2 : 1, and so G N = l F H ; and because P N = C G, it will be G P = i F 1 1 -j- C G ; that is, 2 G P = F H -f- 2 C G, or 2 G P = F H -{- F G ; wherefore F G, G P, F H, are also arithmetical Progrefllonals. But F P, F G, G P, have been fhewn to be such already. Wherefore now it appears, that FP, FG, G P, and F H, are four continual Progreffionals.

Prob. VI. To conftrucl a Trapezium A B CD (Fig. 37.) such, that its four sides Jhatt be equal Fig. 37. to four given right Lines M, N, O, P, any three of which are greater than the fourth, and whose Area shall be equal to a given Square whose side is C\_

This plain Problem is to be feen in Ozanam* s Mathematical Dictionary, where it is refol- ved in the worft manner poffible.

Upon the indefinite right Line A Z, take A D equal to one of the given right Lines M. About the Centre D, with the Distance D C equal to the given right Line P, defcribe a Circle K C R. This done let N -j- O, be called r \ N — O, s •, and the Hypothenufe of a right angled Triangle, whose Base is A D and Perpendicular D C, be called h. Upon A D take D G a fourth Proportional to 2 A D, the Sum of h and r, and the Difference between h and r. Also take D F a fourth Proportional to 2 A D, the Sum of h and s, and the Difference of h and s. Upon F G defcribe a Semicircle F H G. Let K R be a Quadrant of the Circle KCR. And making C H a third Proportional to 4 A D and Q^, from R take R S equal to C H. Continue out R S to V, so that S V be equal to R D, and about the Centre V with the Semidiameter V S defcribe a Circle T H S, whose Centre falls at V in R D continued, cut- ting the aforsaid Semicircle F H G in H, from H draw H C perpenicular to A D cutting the Circle K C R in C. Join D C, and about the Centre A with a Distance equal to the right Line N defcribe an Arch of a Circle. Also about the Centre C, with a Distance equal to the right Line O, defcribe an Arch of a Circle cutting the former Arch in B. Join A B, C B, then will the Trapezium A B C D, be that required.

The Reason of the ConftrucYion will be fufficiently evident from what follows. Join A C. Let us call AD, J; A C, z ; D L, x. Then, by a well known Property of a

Triangle, the Area of the Triangle ABC, will be = J r r r _' z ^~ x z'z^Ts

equal to Q^, therefore Q= 4 A D x CH; that is, C H is a third Proportional to 4 A D and Q^, wherefore C H is given. Confequently the Problem will be refolved by so drawing the right Line C H of a given Length perpendicular to A D, that one of it's Ex- tremes C falls on the Circle KCR, and the other H on the Semicircle FHG; and this may be done by defcribing the Locus of the Point H, or end of a right Line CH always moving parallel to itfelf, while the beginning C thereof moves along the Circumference of the Circle KCR; which Locus will be the Circle T H S equal to the Circle KCR, the Centre being V, and Semi-diameter VS = DR. Where this Circle interacts the Semicircle F H G, will give the Point H such, that C H being drawn will be of the given Magnitude required. The Rest is fufficiently evident.

Note, I have given the instrumental Constructions of the few Problems above, as a Spe- cimen of the mosteafy, natural, and obvious Way poffible of performing the Bufinefs, in order to invite others to proceed in this Way in the Refolution of difficult geometrical Pro- blems, rather than by that usual one so long in vogue, of first obtaining an algebraic Equa- tion by means of the given Conditions of the Problem ; and then finding the linear Roots of that Equation, which in almost all Cafes is troublefome, unelegant, and unnatural, and in many other Cafes is intolerable, and almost impoffible •, for Example, how difficult would it be, by the common Methods, to find the Diameter of a Semicircle, wherein 5, 7, 9, &V. given unequal and contiguous Chords may be inferibed ; and how eafy is it to do this by 5, 7, 9, &c. squares with the refpective Number (less by two) of given Chords fattened by their Extremes to each of the Angles of those Squares, so as to be moveable about. More- over, as every geometrical Problem points out the beft and most fimple Way to its own Construction, by the Interfections of some one Line (ftraight or curve) of a given Order, with some other Line of the fame, or a different Order ; those Conftructions are beft, when these Lines are eafieft defcribed, either by the continual Motion of Rulers, Squares, Bevels, particular Adaptions of Figures, Threads, &c. or by finding a few Points of those interfecting Lines, so many as to determine the Interfections, and when the preparatory right Lines, Per- pendiculars, Parallels, Proportionals, &c. are feweft or none at all. Again, all plain Pro- blems which have two Anfwers, may be conftrufted by the Interfections of a right Line and a Circle, or by the Interfections of two Circles, but oftentimes the Conftruction will be much cafier and fimpler done by the Interfection of a right Line and a conic Section. For Ex- ample, Vieta fhews how to conftruct a Triangle, whose Base, Perpendicular, and Sum of the sides, are each given, by defcribing one Circle through two given Points to touch ano- ther Circle. But this is not the beft ConftrucYion ; for, if with the Extremes of the given Base, as Foci, with a Thread in length equal to the given Sum of the sides, part of an Ellip- fis be defcribed ; then a Parallel to the Base at the given perpendicular Distance from it being drawn, will interfect the Curve of the Ellipfis in two Points, either of which will be the Ver- tex of the Triangle required j and hence it appears, that this Problem of Vieta'i is no more than drawing that Semi- Ordinate to the Axis of a given Ellipfis, which mall have a given Magnitude. And even this may be eafily done without the actual Defcription of any Ellipfis at a?l differently from Vietas's Way, upon the Confideration of the Manner of defcribing an Ellipfis by an elliptick Compass.

Pappus tells us, the Antients preferred Mechanical Cohftructions to ufelefs Geometrical ones •, and the great Dr Barrow, in his Optical Lectures, has given several rnoft eafy and na- tural Confirmations of difficult Problems after this way, by means of the Curve-Lines peculiar to them •, and whoever delights in Conftructions, will have abundance of Reason to be high- ly pleafd with the Simplicity and Eafinefs of these uncommon fort of Conftructions. I my- iclf, in Imitation of Dr Barrow, have constructed many Problems after this way.

Algebra has really nothing to do in the Conftruction of Geometrical Problems, it's Equa- tions being Exprtfiions of an Arithmetical Computation, and accordingly whatever is done by means of them is rather an Arithmetical Refolution of a Problem than a Geometrical one. Besides, when Equations of this fort arife to above two Dimenfions there is no obtaining their Roots in rnoft Cafes, unlefs by a troublefome Approximation ; and to find the first Figures of these Roots, in order to get the other Figures, Sir Ifaac Newton long ago contri- ved an Instrument for this purpofe. A fhort Defcription of which is to be found in the Com- msreium Epiftolicum (publifhed by Order of the Royal Society, in the Year 1725.) at page 123, in a Letter from Mr Oldenburgh, their Secretary, to Mr Leibnitz, dated the 24th of June&gt; in the Year 1675. He fays, Sir Ifaac's Instrument confifts of the Logarithms laid off upon parallel Rulers, or concentrick Circles, placed at equal Distances from one another, three Ru- lers being fufficient for cubic Equations, and four for biquadratick ones ; they are so disposed, as that the rtfpective Co-efficients all lie in the fame right Line, from a Point of which so remote from the first Ruler, as the divided ones are from each other; a right Line is extend- ed over them, with Directions conformable to the Nature of the Equation, by which the pure Power of a Root fought is given in one of those Rulers.

The End of the A P P E N D I X.

ERRATA.

PAGE 266. line 58. for drawing Paper; pq read drawing Paper p q ; Page 286. line 23. dele I Page 291. line 63. for Q read 0. Page 312. line 27. for Wheels read of the Wheel.

BOOKS printed for and fold by J. Richard/on^

in Pater-nofter-Row.

i.fTP^HE Principles of Mechanics, ex- plaining and demonftrating the gene- ral Laws of Motion, the Laws of Gravity, Motion of Defcending Bodies, Projectiles, Mechanic Powers, Pendulums, Centre of Gravity, &c. Strength and Strefs of Timber, Hydroflatics, and Construction of Machines. The Second Edition, 4to.

2. The Doctrine of Fluxions; not only explaining the Elements thereof, but also it's Application and Use in the several Parts of Mathematics and Natural Philofophy. The Second Edition, with large Additions, 8vo.

3. Navigation; or, The Art of Sailing upon the Sea ; containing a Demonstration of the fundamental Principles of this Art ; to- gether with all the practical Rules of compu- ting a Ship's Way, both by plain Sailing, Mercator, and middle Latitude : Founded upon the foregoing Principles, i2mo.

4. The Elements of Trigonometry ; con- taining the Properties, Relations, and Calcu- lations of Sines, Tangents, Secants, &c. The Doctrine of the Sphere, and the Princi- ples of plain and fpherical Trigonometry, all plainly and clearly demonstrated.

5. The Projection of the Sphere, Orthogra- phic, Stereographic, and Gnomonical. Both demonftrating the Principles, and explaining the Practice of these three several Sorts of Projection, 8vo.

The above Five by W. Emerfon.

7. Philofophis Naturalis Principia Mathematica. 4to.

8. Lectiones Optics annis, 1669, 1670 & 1 67 1, in Scholis publicis habits; & nunc primum ex MSS. in lucem edits. 4to.

9. The fame in Englijh. 8vo.

10. Opticks ; or, A Treatife of the Re-
flection, Refraction, Inflection, and Colours
of Light. The Fourth Edition, 8vo.

1 1. The fame in Latin, by S. Clarke, 8vo.

12. Univerfal Arithmetic; or, A Treatife
of Arithmetical Composition and Refolution.
To which is added, Dr Hallefz Method of
finding the Roots of Equations arithmetical-
ly. The Second Edition, 8vo.

The above Six by Sir Ifaac Newton.

13. An Abftract of Sir Ifaac Newton's
Chronology of Antient Kingdoms. By Mr
Reid, 8vo.

14. Geometria Organica ; five Defcriptio
Linearum Curvarum univerfalis. Auctore
Colino Mac-Laurin, R. S. S. 4to.

15. Methodus Incrementorum directa &
univerfa, per Brook Taylor, 4to.

16. Epiftola ad Amicum de Cotefii inven-
tis Curvarum ratione, &c. 4to.

17. Dr Halley's Aftronomical Tables with
the Precepts, Latin and in Englijh, 4to.

1 8. Dr Defagulier's Courfe of Experimen-
tal Philofophy, 2 Vol. 4to.

£q- A tew Copies left of the large Paper.

19. Profeffor Gravefande's Mathematical
Elements of Natural Philofophy, confirmed
by Experiments. Translated by Dr Defagu-
liers, 2 Vol. 4to. with 127 Copper Plates.

20. Explanation of the Newtonian

Philofophy, 8vo.

2i. Effay on Pcrfpective, 8vo. with

32 Copper Plates.

22. A new Mathematical Dictionary, 8vo.
The last Three by E. Stone.

Chap. 2. of the Micrometer. j^y

agrees wii; the next nearef! fixed Hair of the other Frame ; or, which Is the fame thing, move the Frame EFGH the Length of four Lines, or one third of an Inch, which may be eafily known by means of the Objeft-Glass, which magnifies Objects, and count the Revolutions and Parts of the Screw, compleated in moving the said Frame that Length. Finally, make a Table, mewing how many Revolutions, and .Parts of a Revolution of the said .Screw, are anfwerabie to every Minute and Second, by having the Angle fubtended by the two black Lines on the Board given, and taking the Revolutions proportional to the Angles; that is, if a certain Number of Revolutions give a certain Angle, half this

imbcr will give half the Angle, fcf*. And this Proportion is exad enough in these small
.Angles.

Now the Manner of taking the apparent Diameters of the Planets, is thus : Having di-

Ltd the Telescope, and it's Micrometer, towards a Planet, difpofe the Hairs, by the Mo- tion of the Telescope, in such a Manner, that one of the fixed parallel Hairs do jutt touch une Edge of the Planet, and turn the Screw 'till the moveable Hair juft touches the opppfite ge of the. laid Planet. Then, by means of the Table, you will know how many Minutes or Seconds correfpond to the Number of Revolutions or Parts, reckoning from the Point of the Plate ov.r which the Index iiood when the fixed Hair touched one Edge of the Planet, to the. Point it ftands over when the moveable Hair touches the opposite Edge ; and confe- quently, the apparent Diameter of the said Planet will be had. And in this manner may small Angles on Earth be taken, which may be eafier done than those of the Celeftial Bodies, because of their Immobility.

This Method is convenient enough for measuring the apparent Diameters of the Planets', if the Body of any one of them moves between the parallel Hairs. Yet it ought to be ob- ferved, that the Sun and Moon's Diameters appear very unequal upon the account of Re- frccl'on ; for in small Elevations above the Horizon, by the Space of 20 Minutes, the verti- cal Diameters appear fomething leffer than they really are in the Horizon, and the hori- zontal Diamctecs cannot be found, unlefs with much Trouble, and ieveral repeated Obferva- tions ; as likewifc the Distance between two Stars, or the Horns of the Moon, because of t ; ;;ir Diu.nal r-.fotions, which appear thro' the Telescope very fwift.

If two Stirs of different Altitudes pass by the Meridian at different Times, the Difference of their Altitudes will be the Difference of their Distances from the Equator towards either of the Poles, which is called their Difference of Declination ; and by their Difference of Time in coming to the Meridian, the Difference of their Distance from a determinate Point of the Equator, that is, the first Degree of Aries w;li be had j and this is their Difference of Right Afcenfion.

If the two Stars are distant from each other, we have Time enough, in the Interval of their Paffage by the Meridian and Micrometer, to finifli the Operations regarding the first, before proceeding to those of the second ; but if they be very near each other, it is extremely difficult to make both the Obfervations at the fame Time, that so the two Stars may be pre- cifely catched in the Meridian. But M. de la Hire fhews how to remedy this Inconveniency, by only using the common Micrometer : for the Obfervation of the Paffage of Stars be- tween, or upon the Hairs of the Micrometer, will give, by eafy Confequcnces, their Dif- ference of Right Afcenfion and Declination, without even supposing a Meridian known or drawn.

But if the Difference of Declination and Right Afcenfion of two Stars that cannot be taken in between the Hairs of the Micrometer be required, this may be found in the follow- ing Manner.

We adjuft a Crofa-Hair to the Micrometer, cutting the parallel ones at Right Angles, Fig. i&lt;?. which we fatten with Wax to the Middle of the Sides A C and B D. Then the Telescope, and it's Micrometer, being fixed in a convenient Pofitio.h, so that the Stars may fuccefiively pass by the parallel Hair?, as the Stars A and S, in Figure 10 •, we obferve, by a second Pendulum Clock, the Tune wherein the first Star A touches the Point in which the afore- mentioned Oofs-Hair A S croftls some one of the parallel Hairs, as A d. The Micrometer being disposed for this Obfervation, which is not difficult to do, reckon the Seconds of Time clasped between the Obfervations made in the Point A, and the arrival of the said Star to the Point B, being the Concourfe of another parallel Hair BD. We hkewife obferve the Time wherein the other Star S meets the Crofs-Hair at the Point S, and then at the Point D of the parallel Hair B D. Note, It is the fame thing if the Star S first meets the parallel Hair in D, and afterwards the Crofs-Hair in S.

Now as the Number of Seconds the Star A is moving through the Space A B, is to the Number of Seconds- the Star S is moving through the Space S D j so is the Distance A C, known in Minutes and Seconds of a Degree in the Micrometer, to the Distance C S, in Minutes and Seconds of a Degree. But the Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space AB, must be converted into Minutes and Seconds of a great Circle, by the Rule of Pro- portion.

Having first converted the Seconds of the Time of the said Motion from A to B, which may be here efteemed as a Right Line, or an Arc of a great Circle, into Minutes and Se- conds of a Circle, in allowing 15 Minutes of a Circle to every Minute of an Hour, and
