
HE nrfl of these Instruments is a Water-Level, compofcd of a round Tube of Brass, or other solid Matter, about 3 Feet long, and 12 or 15 Lines Diameter, whose Ends are turned up at Right Angles, for receiving two Glass Tubes, 3 or 4 Inches long, fattened on them with Wax 0? Ma- flick. At the Middle and underneath this Tube, is fixed a Ferrel, for placing it upon it's Foot.

There is as much common or coloured Water poured into one End of it, as that it may appear in the Glass Tubes. This Level, altho' very fimple, is very commodious for levelling small Distances. It is founded upon this, that Water always naturally places itfelf level ; and therefore the Height of the Water in the two Glass Tubes will be always the fame, in refpect to the Center of the Earth.

The Air-Level B, is a very flraight Glass Tube, every where of the fame Thicknefs, of an indetermined Length, and Thicknefs in proportion ; being filled to a drop with Spirit of Wine, or other Liquor, not fubject to freeze. The Ends of the Tube are hermetically fealed, that is, the End through which the Spirit of Wine is poured mufl afterwards be clofed,. by heating it with the Flame of a Lamp, blown thro' a little Brass Tube, to make the heat the greater ; and then when the Glass is become foft, the End must be clofed up.

When this Inflrument is perfectly level, the Bubble of Air will fix itfelf juft in the Mid- dle, and when it is not level, the Bubble of Air will rife to the top.

Conjtruifien of an Air -Lev eh

This Inflrument is cornpofed of an Air-Level 1, about 8 Inches long, and 7 or 8 Lines in Diameter, fet in a Brass Tube 2 ; which is left open in the Middle for feeing the Bubble of Air at the Top.

It is carried upon a very flrong flraight Rule, about a Foot long, at the Ends of which arc placed two Sights exaclly of the fame Height, and like that of Number 3, which has a square Hole therein, having two Fillets of Brass very finely filed, eroding one another at Right Angles, in the Middle of which Fillets is drilled a little Hole. There is fattened a little thin fciece of Brass to this Sight, 'with a small Headed-Rivet, to flop the said Square opening,

when there is occafion,- and having a little Hole drilled thro' it, anfwering to that which is in the Middle of the Fillets. The Brass Tube is fattened upon the Rule, by means of two Screws, one of which marked 4, ferves to raife or deprefs the Tube at pleafure, for placing it level, and making it agree with the Sights.

The Top of the Ball and Socket is riveted to a little Rule, that fprings, one of whose Ends is fattened with two Screws to the great Rule, and at the other End there is a Screw 5, fervinf to raife or deprefs the whole Instrument when it is nearly level.

The Manner of adjutting this Level is eafy, for you need but place it upon it's Foot, fo that the Bubble of Air may be exactly in the Middle of the Tube ; then fhutting the Sight next to the Eye, and opening the other, the Point of the Object which is cut by the hori- zontal Fillet is level with the Eye •, and to know whether the Air-Level agrees well with the Sights, you mutt turn the Instrument quite about, and fhut the Sight which before was opened, and open the other. Then looking through the little Hole, if the fame Point of the Object before observed be cut by the horizontal Fillet, it is a fign the Level is juft •, but if there be found any difference, the Tube mutt be raifed or deprefled by means of the Screw 4, 'till the Sights agree with the Level ; that is, that looking at an Object, the Bubble of Air being in the Middle, and afterwards turning the Instrument about, the fame Object may be ieen.

The Level D is a little Glass Tube inclofed within a Brass Tube, fattened upon a Rule per- Fig. D, fectly equal in Thicknefs, and ferves to know whether a Plane be level, or not.

Conflruclion of a Tele/cope Air- Level.

This Level is like the Level C, but inftead of Sights, it carries a Telescope to difcover Fig E. Objects at a good Distance. This Telescope is in a little Brass Tube, about 15 Inches long, fattened upon the fame Rule as the Level, which ought to be of a good Thicknefs, and very ftraight.

At the End of the Tube of the Telescope, marked 1, enters the little Tube 1, carrying the Eye-Glass, and a human Hair horizontally placed in the Focus of the Object-Glass 2. This little Tube may be drawn out or puttied into the great one, for adjutting the Telescope to different Sights.

At the other End of the Telescope is placed the Object-Glass, whose Construction is the fame as that before-mentioned, belonging to the Semi-Circle.

The whole Body of the Telescope is fattened to the Rule, as well as the Level, with Screws, upon two little square Plates, foldered towards the Ends of each Tube, which ought to be perfectly equal in Thicknefs.

The Screw 3, is for raifing or lowering, the little Fork carrying the human Hair, and making it agree with the Bubble of Air, when the Instrument is level ; and the Screw 4, is for making the Bubble of Air agree with the Telescope.

Underneath the Rule there is a Brass Plate with Springs, having a Ball and Socket fattened thereto.

The Level F, is in form of a Square, having it's two Branches of equal length ; at the Fig. F, Junction of which there is made a little Hole, from which hangs a Thread and Plummet, playing upon a Perpendicular Line, in the Middle of the Quadrant, often divided into 90 Degrees. It's Use is very eafy, for the Ends of the Branches being placed upon a Plane, we may know that the Plane is level when the Thread plays upon the Perpendicular in the Middle of the Quadrant.

Conflruclion of a 'Telescope Plumb-Level.

This Instrument is compofed of two Branches, joined together at Right Angles ; whereof Fig. G, that carrying the Thread and Plummet, is about a Foot and a half, or two Foot long.

This Thread is hung towards the Top of the Branch, at the Point 2. The Middle of the Branch, where the Thread paries, is hollow, that so it may not touch in any Place but to- wards the Bottom, at the Place 3, where there is a little Blade of Silver, on which is drawn a Line perpendicular to the Telescope.

The said Cavity is covered by two Pieces of Brass, making as it were a kind of Cafe, left the Wind fhould agitate the Thread ; for which reason there is also a Glass covering the Silver Blade, to the End that we may fee when the Thread and Plummet play upon the Per- pendicular. The Telescope 1, is fattened to the other Branch, which is about two Feet long, and is made like the other Telescopes of which we have already fpoken. All the Fxactnefs of this Instrument confifts in having the Telescope at Right Angles with the Perpendicular.

This Instrument has a Ball and Socket faftened behind the aforsaid Eranch, for placing it upon it's Foot.

There are some of these fort of Levels made of Brass or iron, whose Telescope and the Cavity, in which is included the Thread carrying the Plummet, is about 4 or 5 Feet long, in order to level great Distances at once.

The Telescope is about 1 Inch and a half Diameter, and theCafe in which theThread, carrying the Plummet, is inclofed, is about 2 Inches wide, and half an Inch thick. This Cafe is fattened with Screws in the Middle, to the Telescope ; so that they may be at Right Angles with one another: And at the two Ends of the Telescope are adjufted two broad Circles, in which the Telescope exactly turns ; which Circles, being flat underneath, are faftened to a strong Iron Rule.

This Level is fupported by two Feet almost like that of Figure E, Plate 12, faftened with Screws to the Extremities of the Iron Rule. Also there are two Openings, covered with Glasses, inclofed in little Brass Frames, which open, that so the Thread and Plummet may be hung to the Top of the Cafe, and play upon two little Silver Blades, in a Line drawn on them perpendicular to the Telescope. Thefe Blades are placed against the Openings of the Cafe* and the Telescope is like that before fpoken of, on the Semi-Circle.

All the Exactnefs of this Instrument confifts in having the Telescope at Right Angles to the Perpendiculars drawn upon the Silver Blades.

To prove this Level, you must place it upon it's Foot, in such manner that the Thread may exactly play upon the Perpendicular, and note some Object cut by the Hair in the Focus of the Telescope. Then taking off the Thread and Plummet, turn the Instrument upfide down, and hanging the Thread and Plummet to the Hook at the Bottom of the Cafe, which will now be uppermost, look thro' the Telescope at the aforsaid Object, and if the Thread exactly plays upon the Perpendicular, it is a fign the Instrument is exact ; but if it does not, you mult remove the little Hook to the Right-hand or Left, 'till you make the Thread fall upon the Perpendicular, both before you have turned the Instrument upfide down, and after- wards. You may likewise raife or lower the Telescope, by means of a Screw. Note, Inge- nious Workmen may eafily fupply what I have omitted in this brief Defcription. Fig. H, The Instrument H is a little fimple Level, founded on the fame Principle as the three pre- cedent ones •, the Figure thereof is fufficient to fhew it's Conftruction and Use. Fig. I. The Level I. places itfelf, and is compofed of a pretty thick Brass Rule, about one Foot

long, and an Inch broad, having two Sights of the fame Height placed at the Ends of the Rule, and in the Middle there is a kind of Beam (almost like those of common Scales) for freely fufpending the Level.

At the Bottom of the said Rule is fcrewed on a Piece of Brass, likewise carrying a pretty heavy Ball of Brass. All the Exactnefs of this Instrument confifts in a perfect Equilibrium ; to know which, it is eafy : for holding the Instrument fufpended by it's Ring, and having efpied some Object thro' the Sights, you need but turn the Instrument about, and obferve whether the aforsaid Object appears of the fame Height thro' the Sights •, and if it does, the Instrument is perfectly in equilibria : but if the Object appears a little higher or lower, you may remedy it by removing the Piece of Brass carrying the Ball 'till it be exactly in the Middle of the Point of Sufpenfion, and then it must be fixed with a Screw, because, by Ex- perience, the Instrument was found to be level.

Form ot a Cylinder, and going thro' a Ferrel, in which it is faftened by the Middle. This Ferrel has two flat Branches b b, one above, and the other below, each about a fourth Part of the Telescope in length. At the Ends of each of these two Branches are faftened little moving Pieces, which carry two Rings, by one of which the Telescope is fufpended to a Hook, at the End of the Screw 3 •, and by the other a pretty heavy Weight is fufpended, in order to keep the Telescope in equilibrio. This Weight hangs in the Box 5, which is almost filled with Linfeed Oil, Oil of Wallnuts, or any thing elle that will not coagulate, for more aptly fet- tling the Ballances of the Weight and Telescope.

This Instrument carries fometimes two Telescopes clofe, and very parallel to each other, the Eye-Glass of one being on one side, and the Eye-Glass of the other on the opposite side, that so one may fee on both sides, without turning the Level. If the Tube of the Telescope being fufpended, be not found level, as it will often happen, put a Ferrel or Ring 4 upon it, which may be flid along the Tube, for placing it level, and keeping it fo. And this must be, it there be two Telescopes.

There is a human Hair horizontally (trained and faftened to a little Fork in the Focus of the Object Glass of each Telescope, which may be raifed or lowered, by means of a little Screw, as has been already mentioned.

For proving this Level, having fufpended it by one of the Branches, obferve some distant Object through the Telescope, with the Weight not hung on, and very exactly mark the Point of the Object cut by the Hair of the Telescope : Now hanging the Weight on, if the horizontal Hair anfwers to the fame Point of the said Object, it is a fign the Center of Gravity of the Telescope and Weight, is precifely in a Right Line joining the two Points of Sufpenfion, which continued would pass thro' the Center of the Earth.

But if it otherwise happens, you must remedy it, by Aiding the little Ring backwards or forwards. Having thus adjufted the Telescope, that the fame Point of an Object be feen, as well before the Weight is hung on, as afterwards, you must turn it upfide down, by fuf- pending it to the Branch that was lowermost, and hanging the Weight upon the other. Then if the Hair in the Telescope cuts the aforsaid Point of the Object, it is .rnanifeft, that that

Point of the Object is in the horizontal Plane, with the Center of the Tube of the Telescope: but if the Hair does not cut that Point of the Object, it mud be raifed or lowered by means of the Screw 'till it does. Note, You must every now and then prove this Instrument, for fear lead some Alteration has happened thereto.

The Hook on which this Instrument is hung, is fixed to a flat wooden Crofs, at the Ends of each Arm of which, there is a Hook ferving to keep the Telescope from too much Agita- tion, when the Instrument is using, and for keeping it fteady when it is carrying, in lower- ing the Telescope by means of the Screw 3, which carries it.

There is applied to the said flat Crofs, another hollowed Crofs faftened with Hooks, Which ferves as a Cafe for the Instrument. But note, The two Ends of the Crofs are left open, that so the Telescope being covered from Wind and Rain, may be always in a Condition to ufe.

The Foot fupporting the Instrument, is a round Brass Plate fomething concave, to which is faftened three Brass Ferrels, moveable by means of Joints, wherein are Staves of a conve- nient Length put. The Box at the Bottom of the Level is placed upon this Plate, and may be any ways turned •, so that the Weight, which ought to be Brass, may have a free Motion in the Box, which must be (hut by means of a Screw, that so the Oil may be preferved in Journeys.

Confiruftion of another Level.

This Instrument is a Level almost like that whose Defcription we have last given, but it is Fig. L. eafier to carry from place to place.

Number 1. Is the Cafe in which the Telescope is enclofed.

2. Is a kind of Stirrup, where the Screw, ferving for the Point of Sufpenfion, paflcs ; at the End of which is a Hook, upon which the Ring, at the End of the Plate carrying the Telescope, is hung.

3. Are the Screws above and below for fixing the Telescope, when the Instrument is carry- ing.

4. Are the Hooks for keeping the Cafe (hut.

5. Is one End of the Telescope.

6. Is the End of the Plate whereon a great Brass Ball 7 is hung, ferving to keep the Tele- fcope level.

There are three Ferrels 8, well fixed to the Bottom of the Stirrup, ferving as a Foot to fupport the whole Instrument. Note, There are fometimes put two Telescopes on this Level, as well as in that other of which we have last fpoken.

CHAP. II.

Of the Uses of the aforsaid Instruments in Levelling,

T Evelling is an Operation (hewing the Height of one Place in refpect to another. One \j Place is said to be higher than another, when it is more distant from the Center of the Earth. A Line equally distant from the Center of the Earth, in all it's Points, is called the Line of true Level ; whence, because the Earth is round, that Line must be a Curve, and make a part of the Earth's Circumference, as the Line B C F G, all the Points of which are Fig. u equally distant from the Center A of the Earth: but the Line of Sight, which the Operations of Levels give, is a right Line perpendicular to the Semi-Diameter of the Earth A B, raifed above the true Level, denoted by the Curvature of the Earth, in proportion as it is more ex- tended •, for which Reason, the Operations which we (hall give, are but of the apparent Level, which must be corrected to have the true Level, when the Line of Sight exceeds 50 Toifes.

The following Table, in which are denoted the Corrections of the Points of apparent Level, for reducing them to the true Level, was calculated by help of the Semi-Diameter of the Earth, whose Length may be known by measuring one Degree of it's Circumference. The Gentlemen of the Academy of Sciences, have found by very exact Obfervations, that one De- gree of the Circumference of a great Circle of the Earth, as the Meridian, contains 57292 Toifes ; and giving 25 Leagues to a Degree, a League will be 2291 \-\ Toifes.

Now the whole Circumference of the Earth will be 9000 of the lame Leagues, and it's Di- ameter 2863 T 7 r of them ; from whence all Places on the Superficies of the Earth, will be di- ftant from it's Center 142 1 i* Leagues.

The Line A B reprefents the Semi-Diameter of the Earth, under the Feet or the (Jt&gt;- ferver. The right Line B D E, reprefents the vifual Ray, whose Points D and E are in the apparent Level of the Point B. This Line of apparent Level, ferves for determining a Line of true Level, which is done by taking from the Points of the Line of apparent LevJ, the Height they are above the true Level in refpect to a certain Point, as B ; for it plainly appears from the Figure, that all the Points D, E, of the apparent Level, are farther distant from the Center of the Earth, than the Point B ; and to find the Difference, you need but confider the right-angled Triangle A B D, whose two Sides AB, B D, being known, the Hypothe- nufe A D, may be found : from which fubftracting the Radius A C, the Remainder C D will fhew the Height of the Point D of apparent Level, above the Point of true Level.

A TABLE Jhewing the Corrections of the Points of apparent Level, for reducing them to the true Level, every 50 Toifes.

'The Rule ferving to calculate this Table, is to divide the Square of the Distance by the Diameter of the Earth, which is 6,565,179 Toifes ; for which Reason the Corrections are to one an- other, as the Squares of the Difiances. Altho' the Foundation of this Calculation be not fir icily Geometrical, yet it is nigh enough the Truth for PracJice.

If the Points of apparent Level mould be taken inflead of the Points of true Level, a Body would err in conducting the Water of a Source, which let be, for Example, at the Point B ; for this Source will not run along the Line B D E, but will remain in the Point B ; for if it mould run along the Line B E, it would run higher than it is, which is impoflible, be- caufe it cannot be endued with any other Figure but a Circular one, equally distant from the Center of the Earth. On the contrary, a Source in D will have a great Defcent down to the Point B ; but it cannot run further, because it must be elevated higher than the Source, if it continues it's way in the fame right Line, which cannot be done, unlefs it be forced by fome Machine.

How to reclify Levels.

Fig. 2. To rectify Levels, as, for Example, The Air-Level C you must plant two Staffs, as A B,

about 50 Toifes diflant from each other, because of the Roundnefs of the Earth (take care of exceeding that Distance)-, then efpying from the Station A, the Point B, the Level being placed horizontally, and the Bubble of Air being in the Middle of the Tube, you must raife or lower a Piece of Pafteboard upon the Staff B, in the Middle of which is drawn a black ho- rizontal Line, 'till the vifual Ray of the Obferver's Eye meets the said Line •, after which must be faftened another Piece of Pafteboard to the Staff A, the Middle of which let be the Height of the Eye, when the Piece of Pafteboard B was feen : then removing the Level to the Staff B, place it to the Height of the Center of the Pafteboard, and the Level being horizontally pofited for observing the Piece of Pafteboard A, if then the vifual Ray cuts the Middle of the Piece of Pafteboard, it is a fign the Level is very juft ; but if the vifual Ray falls above or below, as in the Point C, 'you must, by always keeping the Eye at the fame Height, lower the Telescope or the Sight, 'till the Middle of the vifual Ray falls upon the Middle of the Difference, as in D ; and the Telescope thus remaining, the Tube of the Level must be ad- jufted 'till the Bubble of Air fixes in the Middle, which may be done by means of the Screw 4.

Again •, Return to the Staff A, and place the Level the Height of the Point D, for looking at the Piece of Pafteboard B ; and if the vifual Ray falls upon the Middle of the Piece of Pafteboard, it is a fign the Telescope agrees with the Level : if not, the fame Operations must be repeated, until the vifual Rays fall upon the Centers of the two Pieces of Pafteboard.

Another way to reclify Levels.

Knowing two Points distant from each other, and perfectly level, place the End of the Telescope carrying the Eye-Glass to the exact Height of one of those two Points, the Bub- ble of Air being fixed in the Middle of it's Tube •, then by looking thro' it, if it happens that

the Hair of the Telescope cuts the fccond Point, it is a fign the Level is juft ; but if the Hair falls above or below the Point of Level, you must, in always keeping the Eye at the fame Height, raife or lower the End of the Level where the Object Glass is, until the Vifual Ray of the Telescope falls upon the exact Point of Level ; and leaving it thus, raife or deprefs the Tube carrying the Level, so that the Bubble of Air may remain in the Middle.

What we have said concerning the Rectification of this Level, may ferve likewise for the Rectification of others, the Difference is only to change the Plummets and the Hairs of the Telescopes, according to their Conftructions.

The Manner of Levelling.

To find, for Example, the Height of the Point A on the Top of a Mountain, above the Fig. %. Point B at it's foot, place the Level about the middle Distance between the two Points, as in D, and plant Staffs in A and B. Also let there be Perfons inftructed with Signals, for raifino- or lowering upon the said Staffs flit Sticks, at the Ends of which are fattened pieces of Pafte-Board : The Level being placed upon it's Foot, look towards the Staff A E, and caufe one of the Pcfons to raife or lower the Pafte-Board, until the upper Edge or Middle appears in the vifual Ray •, then measure exactly the perpendicular Height of the Point E above the Point A, which, in this Example, suppose 6 Feet 4 Inches, which fet down in a Memo- rial. Then turn the Level horizontally, so that it may always be at the fame Height, for the Eye-Glass of the Telescope to be next to the Eye •, but if it be a Sight Level, there is no ncceffity of turning it about, and caufe the Perfbn at the Staff "B to raife or lower the Piece of Pafte-Board, until the upper Edge of it be feen, as at C, which suppose 16 Feet 6 Inches, which fet down in the Memorial above the other Number of the first Station •, whence to know the Height of the Point A above the Point B, take 6 Feet 4 Inches from 16 Feet 2 Inches, and the Remainder will be 10 Feet 2 Inches, for the Heighth of A above B.

Note, If the Point D, where the Obferver is placed, be in the Middle between the Point A and the Point B, there is no neceffity of regarding the Height of the apparent Level above the true Level, because those two Points being equally distant from the Eye of the Ob- ferver, the vifual Ray will be equally raifed above the true Level, and confequently there needs no Correction to give the Height of the Point A above the Point B.

Another Example of Levelling.

It is required to Know, whether there be a fufficient Defcent for conducting Water from Fig. 4. the Source A to the Receptacle B of a Spring. Now because the Biftance from the Point A to B is great, there are several Operaiions required to be made. Having chosen a proper Height for placing the Level, as at the Point I, plant a Pole in the Point A near the Source, on which Aide up and down another, carrying the Piece of Pafte-Board L •, measure the Di- ftance from A to I, which suppose 1000 Toifes. Then the Level being adjufted in the Point K, let fomebody move the Pafte-Board L up or down, until you can efpy it thro' the Telescope or Sigfus of the Level, and measure the Height A L, which suppose 2 Toifes, 1 Foot, 5 Inches. But because the Distance A I is 1000 Toifes, according to the afore- mentioned Table, you must fubftract 1 1 Inches, and the Fleight A L will confequently be but 2 Toifes 6 Inches, which note down in the Memorial.

Now turn the Level about, so that the Object Glass of the Telescope may be next to the Pole planted in the Point H, and the Level being adjufted, caufe some Perfon to move the Piece of Pafte-Board G up and down, until the upper Edge of it may be efpied thro' the Telescope -, measure the Height H G, which suppose 3 Toifes, 4 Feet, 2 Inches ; measure likewise the Distance of the Points I, H, which suppose 650 Toifes ; tor which Distance, according to the Table, you must fubftract 4 Inches 8 Lines from the Fleight H G, which confequently will then be but 3 Toifes, 3 Feet, 9 Inches, 4 Lines, which fet down in the Memorial.

This being done, remove the Level to some other Eminence, from whence the Pole H G may be difcovered, and the Angle of the Houfe D, the Ground about which is level with the Receptacle B of the Spring.

The Level being adjufted in the Point E, look at the Staff FI, and the vifual Ray will give the Point F •, measure the Height H F, which suppose 11 Feet 6 Inches •, likewile mea- fure the Distance IT E, which suppose 500 Toifes, for which Distance the Table gives 2 In- ches 9 Lines of abatement, which being taken from the Fleight H F, and there will remain 11 Feet, 3 Inches, 3 Lines, which fet down in the Memorial. Laftly, Flaving turned the Level for looking at the Angle of the Houfe D, measure the Fleight of the Point D, where tne vifual Ray terminates above the Ground, which suppose S Feet 3 Inches. Meafure alio the Distance from the Point D, to the said Houfe, winch is 450 Toifes, for which Distance the Table gives 2 Inches 3 Lines 01 Abatement •, which being taken from the said Height, there will remain 8 Feet 9 Lines, which let down in the Memorial.

How to fet down all the different Heights in the Memorial

Having found proper Places (as we have already supposed) for placing the Level between two Points, you must write on the Memorial, in two different Columns, the observed Heights j namely, under the first Colum those observed by looking thro' the Telescope, when the Eye was next to the Source A ; and under the second Column, those observed when the Eye was next to the Receptacle B of the Spring, in the following Manner.

Having added together the Heights of the first Column, and afterwards those of the second,
fubftract the first Additions from the second.


Whence the Height of the Source A above the Receptacle B is 1 Toife and 10 Lines.

If the Distance be required, you need but add all the Distances measured together;

The whole Distance 2600 Toifes.

Laftly, Dividing the Defcent by the Toifes of the Distance, there will be for every 100
Toifes, about 2 Inches 9 Lines of Defcent, nighly.

X and is commonly a Rectangular Parallelepipedon of Brass well foldered, about a Foot long, 8 Inches broad, and as many in height, more or less, according to the Quantity of Water to be measured, having several round Holes very exactly drilled in it, an Inch in Di- ameter, and others for Half an Inch of Water to pass thro' ; and also others for a Quarter of an Inch of Water to pass thro' them. All of which ought to be drilled so as their Centers may be at the fame Height. The upper Extremes of the Inch-Holes must be within two Lines of the Top of the Gauge •, and the Holes are flopped with little square Brass Plates, ad- jufted in the Grooves 1, 2 and 3. There is a Brass Partition, crofting the Vessel at the Place 4, fixed about an Inch from the Bottom, and drilled with several Holes, for the Water to pass more freely. This Partition is made to receive the Shock of the Water falling from the Source into the Gauge, and hindring it from making Waves, so that it may more naturally run out thro' the Holes.

Note, The Holes which give a Cylindric Inch of Water, ought to be exactly 1 2 Lines in Diameter ; that giving half an Inch ought to be 8 j Lines, and that giving a Quarter of an Inch must be exactly 6 Lines. This may be eafily found by Calculation.

To use this Instrument, it must be placed so as it's Bottom may be parallel to the Horizon, and then let the Water of the Source run thro' a Pipe into the Gauge (as per Figure), and when it wants about a Line of the Top, open one of the Holes (for Example) of an Inch. Then if the Water always keeps the fame Height in the Gauge, it is manifest that there runs as much into it as goes out of it, and so the Source will furnifh an Inch of Water.

But if the Water in the Gauge riles, there must be another Hole opened, either of an Inch, half an Inch, or a Quarter of an Inch -, lb that the Water may keep to the fame Height in the Gau"-e, that is, to a Line above the Holes of an Inch ; and then the Number of Holes opened will give the Quantity of Water furnifhed by the Source.

The little Velsel receiving the Water running out of the Gauge, is to fhew how much Fig. N. Water the Source fyrnifhes in a determinate Space of Time : For having a Pendulum which Twines Seconds, note how many Seconds there will be in the Time that this VefTel, fet un- der the Hole giving an Inch of Water, is filling ; and exactly measuring the Quantity of Water it contains, you may have the Quantity of Water the Source furnifhes in an Hour.

There has several very exact Experiments been made upon this Subject : from whence it has been found, that a Source giving one Inch of Water, will fill 14 Pints of Paris, in a Minute.

it follows from hence, that an Inch of Water gives in an Hour 8 Paris Muids, and in 24 Hours, 72 Muids.

If, for Example, a Cubic Vessel be placed under the Gauge, containing a Cubic Foot •, and if the Water runs thro' the Hole giving an Inch of Water, that Vessel will be filled in two Minutes and a half: From whence it follows, that it gives 14 Pints in a Minute, because it furnifhed 35 Pints in two Minutes and a half.

By this means we may know the Inches of Water a Spring or Running-Stream gives : As if, for Example, the Spring gives 7 Pints of Water in a Second ; then it is said to furnifh an Inch of Water: If it mould give 21 Pints, then it is said to furnifh 3 Inches of Water •, and so of others.

To measure the Running-Water of an Aqueduct or River, which cannot be received in a Gauge, you must put a Ball of Wax upon the Water, made so heavy with some other Matter, as that there nay be but a small part of the Ball above the Surface of the Water, that so the Wind can have no power on it. And after having measured a Length of 15 or 20 Feet of the Aqueduct, you may know by a Pendulum in what time the Ball of Wax will be carried that Distance ; and afterwards multiplying the Breadth of the Aqueduct or River by the Height of the Water, and that Product by the Space which the Ball of Wax has moved, this last Product will give all the Water passed, in the noted Time, thro' the Section of the River. Example ; Suppose in an Aqueduct two Feet wide, and one Foot deepi a Ball of Wax moves, in 20 Seconds, 30 Feet, which will be one Foot and a half in a Second : But because the Water moves fwifter at the Top than the Bottom, you must take but 20 Feet, which will be one Foot in a Second •, the Product of one Foot deep, by 2 Feet broad, is 2 Feet, which multiplied by 20, the Length, gives 40 Cubic Feet, or 40 times 35 Pints of Water, which makes 1400 Pints in 20 Seconds ; and if 20 Seconds give 1400 Pints, 60 Seconds will give 4200 Pints-, and dividing 4200 by 14, which is the Number of Pints an Inch of Water gives, in a Minute or 60 Seconds, the Quotient 300 will be the Number of Inches which the Water of the Aqueduct furnifhes.

Mr Mariotte, who has learnedly wrote about the Motion of Water, is of opinion that Springs are nothing but Rain Water, which passing thro' the Earth, meets with Haffock or Clay, which it cannot penetrate •, and therefore is obliged to run along the Sides, and so form a Spring. For fupporting this Hypothefis, he brings the following Experi- ment.

Having fet a Cubic Vessel about a Foot high in a proper place to catch Rain- Water for ftveral Years, he observed that the Water arofe in the Vessel each Year, one with another, 1 8 Inches •, but he thought it better to make it but 1 5 Inches : whence a Toife will receive in a Year 45 Cubic Feet of Water; for multiplying 36 Feet by 15 Inches, the Product will be 45 Cubic Feet.

The fame Author likewise computes the Extent of Ground which fupplies the River Seine with Water ; and has found that the Seine is not the fixth Part as big as it might be. He has again observed, that it has but 10 Inches of Defcent in ioooToifes over-against the Inva- lids. He faith likewise, that, according to this fuppofition, the greateft Spring of Montmartre y when it is most abounding, doth not furnifh over and above Water, since the Ground over- whelming it ought to fend Water thereto. Whence he concludes, that there is a great deal of Water loft in the Earth.

To know the Shock Water produces, Experience has fhewn that Water accelerates it's Motion, according to the odd Numbers 1, 3, 5, 7, i£c. that is, if in a fourth Part of a Second it defcends one Foot in a Pipe, it will defcend 3 Feet in the next fourth of a Second.

The Quantities of Water fpouting out thro' equal Holes made at the Bottoms of Referva- tories, of different Heights, are to each other in the fubduplicate Ratio of the Heights. The following Table fhews the different Expences of Water at different Heights.

A Table of the Expence of Water thro 1 different Ajutages at the fame Height of the Refer- vatory.

You may fee by this Table, that an Ajutage *, double another in Diameter, will expend four times the Water as that other will. Example ; That of three Lines will expend in a Minute 14 Pints, and that of 6 Lines will expend §6 Pints. Note, The Ajutages mull not be made Conical, but Cylindrical.

Construction of the Callipers.

Fig. O. f I A HIS Inflrument is made of two Branches of Brass, about fix or 7 Inches long when X. mut, each Branch being four Lines broad, and three in Thicknefs. The Motion of the Head thereof is like that of the Head of a two-Foot Rule, and the Ends of the Branches are bent inwards, and furnifhed with Steel at the Extremes.

There is a Kind of Tongue faftened to one of the Branches, whose Motion is like that of the Head, for raifing or lowering it, that so it's End, which ought to be very thin, may be put into Notches made in the other Branch, on the Infide of which are marked the Di- meters anfwerable to the Weights of Iron Bullets, in this Manner : Having gotten a Rule, on which are denoted the Divisions of the Weights, and the Bores of Pieces (the Method of dividing which will be fhewn in fpeaking of the next Inflrument), open the Callipers, fo that the inward Ends may anfwer to the Distance of each Point of the Divisions fhewing the Weights of Bullets : And then make a Notch at each Opening with a triangular File, that fo the End of the Tongue entering into each of these Notches, may fix the Opening of the Branches exactly to each Number of the Weights of Bullets. We commonly make Notches for the Diameters of Bullets weighing from one fourth of a Pound to 48 Pounds, and fome- times to 64 Pounds. And then Lines mufl be drawn upon the Surface of this Branch againfl the Notches, upon which must be kt the correfpondent Numbers denoting the Pounds.

The Use of this Inflrument is eafy, for you need but apply the two Ends of the Branches to the Diameter of the Bullet to be measured ; and then the Tongue being put in a conve- nient Notch, will fhew the Weight of the Bullet.

There ought always to be a certain Proportion observed in the Breadth of the Points of this Inflrument ; so that making an Angle (as the Figure fhews) at each Opening, the Infide may give the Weight of Bullets, and the Outfide the Bores of Pieces ; that is, that applying the outward Ends of those Points to the Diameter of the Mouths of Cannon, the Tongue, being placed in the proper Notch, may fhew the Weights of Bullets proper for them.

Conjlruftion of the Gunners Square.

F) 2- p * This Square ferves to elevate or lower Cannons or Mortars, according to the Places they

are to be levelled at, and is made of Brass, one Branch of which is about a Foot long, 8 Lines broad, and one Line in Thicknefs ; the other Branch is 4 Inches long, and of the fame Length and Breadth as the former. Between these Branches there is a Quadrant divided into 90 Deg. beginning from the fhortefl Branch, furnifhed with a Thread and Plummet.

The Use of this Instrument is eafy, for there is no more to do but to place the longed Branch in the Mouth of the Cannon or Mortar, and elevate or lower it, 'till the Thread cuts the Degrees neceffary to hit a proposed Object. .

There are likewise very often denoted, upon one of the Surfaces of the lono-eft Branch, the Division of Diameters and Weights of Iron Bullets, as also the Bores of Pieces.

The making of this Division is founded upon one or two Experiments, in examinino-, with all poflible Exactnefs, the Diameter of a Builet, whose Weight is very exactly known. For Example, having found that a Bullet, weighing four Pounds, is three Inches in Diame- ter, it will be eafy to make a Table of the Weights and Diameters of any other Bullets, because, -per Prop. 18. lib. 12. EucL Bullets are to one another as the Cubes of their Diame- ters ; from whence it follows, that the Diameters are as the Cube Roots of Numbers, ex- prtffing their Weights.

Now having found, by Experience, that a Bullet, weighing four Pounds, is three Inches in Diameter ; if the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 32 Pounds be required, fay, by the Rule of Three, As 4 is to 32, So is 27, the Cube of 3, to a fourth Number, which will be 216; whose Cube Root, 6 Inches, will be the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 32 Pounds.

Or otherwise, feek the Cube Root of these two Numbers 4 and 32, or 1 and 8, which are in the fame Proportions, and you will find 1 is to 2, As 3 is to 6, which is the fame as before.

But since all Numbers have not exact Roots, the Table of homologous Sides of similar So- lids (in the Treatife of the Sector) may be used. If now, by help of that Table, the Dia- meter of an Iron Bullet, weighing 64 Pounds, be required, make a Rule of Three, whose first Term is 397, the Side of the fourth Solid •, the second 3 Inches, or 36 Lines, the Dia- meter of the Bullet weighing four Pounds \ and the third Term 1000, which is the Side of the 64th Solid : the Rule being finifhed, you will have 90 4 Lines for the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 64 Pounds. Afterwards to facilitate the Operations of other Rules of Three, always take, for the first Term, the Number 1000, for the second 90 4 Lines, and for the third the Number found in the Table, over against the Number exprelTing the Weight of the Bullet. As to find the Diameter of a Bullet weighing 24 Pounds, fay, As 1000 is to 90 4 Lines, So is 721, to 65 Lines, which is 5 Inches and 5 Lines for the Diameter fought. By this Method the following Table is calculated.

which ferve to take the Diameters of Bullets, and then to find their Weights, by applying the Diameters on the Divisions of the before- mentioned Rule. But when you would know the Bores of Pieces, the curve Points must be taken off, and the ftrait ones put on, with which the Diameters of the Mouths of Cannon must be taken, and afterwards they must be applied to the Line of the Bores of Pieces, which is also fet down upon the aforsaid Rule •, by which means the Weights of the Bullets, proper for the proposed Cannon, may be found.

Conflruclion of an Infirument to level Cannon and Mortars.

Fl S- R - This Instrument is made of a Triangular Brass Plate, about four Inches high, at the Bot-

tom of which is a Portion of a Circle, divided into 45 Degrees •, which Number is fufficient for the higheft Elevation of Cannon or Mortars, and for giving Shot the greateft Range, as hereafter will be explained. There is a Piece of Brass fcrewed on the Center of this Portion of a Circle, by which means it may be fixed or movable, according to Neceffity.

The End of this Piece of Brass must be made fo, as to ferve for a Plummet and Index, in order to (hew the Degrees of different Elevations of Pieces of Artillery. This mftrument hath also a Brass Foot to fet upon Cannon or Mortars, so that when the Pieces of Cannon or Mortars are horizontal, the whole Infirument will be perpendicular.

The Use of this Infirument is very eafy •, for place the Foot thereof upon the Piece to be elevated, in such manner that the Point of the Plummet may fall upon a convenable Degree, and this is what we call levelling of a Piece.

Of the Artillery Foot-Level.

Fig. S. The Infirument S is called a Foot-Level, and we have already fpoken of it's Conflruction ;

but when it is used in Gunnery, the Tongue, ferving to keep it at right Angles, is divided into 90 Degrees, or rather into twice 45 Degrees from the Middle. The Thread, carrying the Plummet, is hung in the Center of the aforsaid Divisions, and the two Ends of the Branches are hollowed, so that the Plummet may fall perpendicular upon the Middle of the Tongue, when the Infirument is placed level.

To use it, place the two Ends upon the Piece of Artillery, which may be raifed to a pro- pofed Height, by means of the Plummet, whose Thread will give the Degrees.

Upon the Surface of the Branches of this Square, which opens quite ftrait like a Rule, are fet down the Weights and Diameters of Bullets, and also the Bores of Pieces, as we have be- fore explained in fpeaking of the Gunner's Square.

Fig. T. The Infirument T is likewise for levelling Pieces of Artillery, being almost like R, except

only the Piece, on which are the Divisions of Degrees, is movable, by means of a round Rivet : that is, the Portion of the Circle (or Limb) may be turned up and adjufted to the Branch, so that the Infirument takes up less room, and is eafier put in a Cafe. The Figure thereof is enough to fhew it's Conflruction, and it's Uses are the fame as those of the prece- dent Infirument.

Explanation of the Effecls of Cannon and Mortars.

Fig. V. The Figure V reprefents a Mortar upon it's Carriage, elevated and disposed for throwing

a Bomb into a Citadel, and the Curve-Line reprefents the Path of the Bomb thro' the Air, from the Mouth of the Piece to it's Fall. This Curve, according to Geometricians, is a Pa- rabolic Line, because the Properties of the Parabola agree with it ; for the Motion of the Bomb is compofed of two Motions, one of which is equal and uniform, which the Fire of the Powder gives it, and the other is an uniform accelerate Motion, communicated to it by it's proper Gravity. There arifes, from the Composition of these two Forces, the fame Pro- portion, as there is between the Portions of the Axis and the Ordinates of a Parabola ; as is very well demonftrated by M. BlondeU in his Book, entitled, The Art of throwing Bombs.

Maltus, an Englifh Engineer, was the first that put Bombs in practice in France, in the Year 1634, all his Knowledge was purely experimental ; he did not, in the least, know the Nature of the Curve they defcribe in their Paffage thro' the Air, nor their Ranges, according to dif- ferent Elevations of Mortars, which he could not level but tentively, by the Eflimation he made of the Distance of the Place he would throw the Bomb to ; according to which he gave his Piece a greater or less Elevation, feeing whether the first Ranges were juft or not, in order to lower his Mortar, if the Range was too little ; or raife it, if it was too great ; using, for that effect, a Square and Plummet, almost like that of which we have already fpoken.

The greateft Part of Officers, which have ferved the Batteries of Mortars since Maltus's Time, have used his Elevations ; they know, by Experience, nearly the Elevation of a Mor- tar to throw a Bomb to a given Distance, and augment or diminish this Elevation in propor- tion, as the Bomb is found to fall beyond or fhort of the Distance of the Place it is required to be thrown in.

Yet there are certain Rules, founded upon Geometry, for finding the different Range?, not only of Bombs, but likewise of Cannon, in all the Sorts of Elevations ; for the Line, de- fcribed in the Air by a Bullet mot from a Cannon, is also a Parabola in all Projections, not only oblique ones, but right ones, as the Figure W fhews.

A Bullet going out of a Piece, will never proceed in a ftraight Line towards the Place it is levelled at, but will rife up from it's Line of Direction the Moment after it is out of the Mouth of the Piece. For the Grains of Powder nigheft the Breech, taking fire first, prefs forward, by their precipitated Motion, not only the Bullet, but likewise those Grains of Powder which follow the Bullet along the Bottom of the Piece -, where fuccefllvely taking fire, they ftrike as it were the Bullet underneath, which, because of a neceffary Vent, hat not the fame Diameter as the Diameter of the Bore : and so infenfibJy raife the Bullet to- wards the upper Edge of the Mouth of the Piece, against which it so rubs in going out, that Pieces very much used, and whose Metal is foft, are observed to have a confiderable Canal there, gradually dug by the Friction of Bullets. Thus the Bullet going from the Cannon, as from the Point E, raifes itfelf to the Vertex of the Parabola G, after which it defcends by a mixed Motion towards B.

Ranges, made from an Elevation of 45 Deg. are the greater!, and those made from Ele- vations equally distant from 45 Deg. are equal •, that is, a Piece of Cannon, or a Mortar, levelled to the 40th Deg. will throw a Bullet, or Bomb, the fame Distance, as when they are elevated to the 50th Degree ; and as many at 30 as 60, and so of others, as appears in Fig. X. . Fig. X.

The first who reasoned well upon this Matter, was GaliUus, chief Engineer to the Great Duke of Tufcany, and after him Torricellius his Succeffor.

They have fhewn, that to find the different Ranges of a Piece of Artillery in all Eleva- tions, we must, before all things, make a very exact Experiment in firing off a Piece of Cannon or Mortar, at an Angle well known, and measuring the Range made, with all the Exactnefs poffible : for by one Experiment well made, we may come to the Knowledge of all the others, in the following Manner.

To find the Range of a Piece at any other Elevation required, fay, As the Sine of double the Angle under which the Experiment was made, is to the Sine of double the Angle of an Elevation proposed, So is the Range known by Experiment, to another.

As suppose, it is found by Experiment that the Range of a Piece elevated to 30 Deg. is 1000 Toifes : to find the Range of the fame Piece with the fame Charge, when it is elevated to 45 Deg. you must take the Sine of 60 Degrees, the double of 30, and make it the first Term of the Rule of Three ; the second Term must be the Sine of 90, double 45 •, and the third the given Range 1000: Then the fourth Term of the Rule will be found 1155, the Range of the Piece at 45 Degrees of Elevation.

If the Angle of Elevation proposed be greater than 45 Deg. there is no need of doubling it for having the Sine as the Rule directs •, but inftead of that, you must take the Sine of double it's Complement to 90 Degrees: As, suppose the Elevation of a Piece be 50 Degrees, the Sine of 80 Degrees, the double of 40 Deg. must be taken.

But if a determinate Distance to which a Shot is to be caft, is given (provided that Distance be not greater than the greateft Range at 45 Deg. of Elevation), and the Angle of Elevation to produce the proposed Effect be required •, as suppose the Elevation of a Cannon or Mortar is required to caft a Shot 800 Toifes ; the Range found by Experiment must be the first Term in the Rule of Three, as for Example 1000 Toifes-, the proposed Distance 800 Toifes, must be the second Term ; and the Sine of 60 Degrees, the third Term. The fourth Term being found, is the Sine of 43 Deg. 52 Min. whose half 21 Deg. §6 Min. is the Angle of Elevation the Piece must have, to produce the proposed Effect -, and if 21 Deg. 56 Min. be taken from 90 Deg. you will have 68 Deg. 4 Min. for the other Elevation ot the Piece, with which also the fame Effect will be produced.

For greater Facility, and avoiding the Trouble of finding the Sines of double the Angles of propofjd Elevations, Galil&lt;eus and 'Torricellius have made the following Table, in which the Sines of the Angles fought are immediately feen.

The Use of this Table is thus : Suppose it be known by Experience, that a Mortar ele- vated 15 Degrees, charged with three Pounds of Powder, throws a Bomb at the Difhance of 350 Toifes, and it is required with the fame Charge to caft a Bomb 100 Toifes further; feek in the Table the Number anfwering to 15 Degrees, and you will find 5000. Then form a Rule of Three, by faying, As 350 is to 450, So is 5000 to a fourth Number, which will be 6428. Find this Number, or the nigheft approaching to it, in the Table, and you will find it next to 20 Deg. or 70 Deg. which will produce the required Effect, and so of others.

\ joined together by a Rivet in such a Manner, that one may move quite round the other. The Head or End of one of these Pieces is cut Circular, and the Plead of the other .Semi- Circular, the Center of which being the Center of the Rivet. The Length of each of those Pieces from the Center of the Rivet is fix Inches •, so that when the Callipers are quite opened, they are a Foot long.

One half of the Circumference of the Circular Plead, is divided into every 2 Degrees, every tenth of which are numbered. And on part of the other half, beginning from the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, when the Points of the Callipers are clofe together, are Di- vifions from 1 to 10, each of which are likewise fubdivided into four Parts. The Use of these Divisions and Subdivifions, is, that when you have taken the Diameter of any round thing, as a Cannon-Bali, not exceeding 10 Inches, the Diameter ot the Semi-Circle will, amongfl those Divisions, give the Length of that Diameter taken between the Points of the Callipers in Inches and 4th Parts.

From this Use, it is manifest how the aforsaid Divisions for Inches may be eafily made : For, first, fet the Points of the Callipers together, and then make a Mark for the Beginning of the Divisions •, then open the Points one fourth of an Inch, and where the Diameter or the Semi-Circle cuts the Circumference, make a Mark for one fourth of an Inch. Then open the Points half an Inch, and where the Diameter of the Semi-Circle cuts the Circumfe- rence, make another Mark for half an Inch. In this Manner proceed for all the other Subdi- vifions and Divisions to Ten,

Upon one of the Branches, on the fame Side the Callipers, are, First, half a Foot or fix Inches, each fubdivided into ten Parts : Secondly, a Scale of unequal Divisions, beginning at two, and ending at ten, each of which are fubdivided into four Parts. The Conltruclion of this Scale or Lines will be very evident, when it's Use is fiiewn, which is thus : If you have a Mind to find how many Inches, under 10, the Diameter of any Concave, as the Diameter of the Bore of any Piece of Ordnance is in length, you must open the Branches of the Cal- lipers, so that the two Points may be outwards ; then taking the Diameter between the laid Points fee what Division, or Subdivifion, the outward Edge of the Branch with the Semi- circular Plead, cuts on the aforsaid Scale of Lines, and that will be the Number of Inches, or Parts, the Diameter of the Bore of the Piece is in Length. Therefore the Divisions on this Scale may be made in the fame Manner as I have before directed, in fiiewing how to make die Divisions for finding the Diameters of round Convex Bodies.

Thirdly, The two other Scales of Lines on the fame Face of the fame Branch, mew when
the Diameter of the Bore of a Piece of Cannon is taken with the Points of the Callipers
outward, the Name of the Piece, whether Iron or Brass, that is, the Weight of the Bullets
rhev carry, or such and such a Pounder, from 42 Pounds to 1. The ConftrucYion of these
Scales are from experimental Tables in Gunnery.

On the other Branch, the fame Side of the Callipers, is, First, fix Inches, every of which is
fubdivided into 10 Parts. Secondly, A Table fhewing the Weight of a Cubic Foot of Gold,
Quick-filver, Lead, Silver, Copper, Iron, Tin, Purbec-Stovie, Chryftal, Brimftone, Water,
Wax, Oil, and dry Wood.

On the other Side of the Callipers, is a Line of Chords to about three Inches Radius, and Fig. %\
a Line of Lines on both Branches, the fame as on the Sector.

There is also a Table of the Names of the following Species of Ordnance, viz. a Falconet, a Falcon, a Three-Pounder, a Minion, a Sacker, a Six- Pounder, an Eight-Pounder, a Deml- Culverin, a Twelve-Pounder, a Whole-Culverin, a Twenty-four-Pounder, a Demi-Cannon, Baflard-Cannon, and a Whole-Cannon. Under these are the Quantities of Powder neceffary for each of their Proofs, and also for their Service.

Upon the fame Face is a Hand graved, and a Right Line drawn from the Finger towards the Center of the Rivet. Which Right Line Ihews, by cutting certain Divisions made on the Circle, the Weight of Iron-fhot, when the Diameters are taken with the Points of the Cal- lipers, if they are of the following Weights, viz. 42, 32, 24, 18, 12, 9, 6, 4, 3, 2, 1, 1 ', j, Pounds. Thefe Figures are not all fet to the Divisions on the Circumference, tor avoiding Confufion. The aforsaid Divisions on the Circumference may be thus made : First, When the Points of the Callipers are clofe, continue the Line drawn from the Finger on the Limb, to reprefent the Beginning of the Divisions. Now, because from Experience it is found, that an Iron Ball or Globe weighing one Pound is 1.8 of an Inch, open the Callipers, so that the Distance between the two Points may be 1.8 of an Inch ; and then, where the Line drawn from the Finger cuts the Circumference, make a Mark for the Division 1. Again, to find where the Division 1.5 must be, fay, As 1 is to the Cube of 1.8, So is 1.5 to the Cube of the Diameter of an Iron Ball weighing 1.5 Pounds, whose Root extracted will give 2.23 Inches. Therefore open the Points of the Callipers, so that they may be 2.23 Inches distant from each other ; and then, where the Line drawn from the Finger cuts the Circumference, make a Mark for the Division 1 \ . The Reason of this is, because the Weights of Homogeneous Bodies, are to each other as their Magnitudes ; and the Magnitudes of Globes and Spheres, are to each other as the Cubes of their Diameters.

Proceed in the aforsaid Manner, in always making 1 the first Term of the Rule of Three, and the Cube of 1.8 the second, &c. and all the Divisions will be had.

Upon the Circle or Head, on the fame Side of the Callipers, are graved several Geometrical Figures, with Numbers fet thereto. There is a Cube whose Side is supposed to be 1 Foot, or 12 Inches, and a Pyramid of the fame Base and Altitude over it: On the Side of the Cube is graved 470, fignifying that a Cubic Foot of Iron weighs 470 Pounds •, and on the Pyramid is graved 156 -*-, fignifying that the Weight of it is so many Pounds.

The next is a Sphere, supposed to be inferibed in a Cube of the fame Dimenfions, as the former Cube, in which is writ 246^, which is the Weight of that Sphere or Iron. The next is a Cylinder, the Diameter and Altitude of which is equal to the Side of the aforsaid Cube, and a Cone over it, of the fame Base and Altitude; there is fet to the Cylinder 369 - 1 .,, fig- nifying, that a Cylinder of Iron of that Bignefs, weighs 369 - t ? T , and to the Cone 121 T -2-o&gt; fignilying, that a Cone of Iron of that Bignefs weighs 121 ^^ Pounds.

The next is a Cube inferibed in a Sphere of the fame Dimenfions as the aforsaid Sphere. There is fet to it the Number 90 -?, fignifying, that a Cube of Iron inferibed in the said Sphere, weighs 90 J - Pounds.

^ The next is a Circle inferibed in a Square, and a Square in that Circle, and again a Circle in the latter Square. There is fet thereto the Numbers 2S, n, 22, and 14, fignifying, that if the Area of the outward Square be 28, the Area of it's inferibed Circle is 22, and the Area of the Square inferibed in the Circje 14, and the Area of the Circle inferibed in the latter Square 1 1 .

The next and last, is a Circle croffed with two Diameters at Right Angles, having in it the Numbers 7, 22, 113 and 355 ; the two former of which reprefent the Proportion of the Diameter of a Circle to it's Circumference ; and the two latter also the Proportion of the Dia- meter to the Circumference. But fomething nearer the Truth.

I have already, as it were, fhewn the Uses of this Instrument ; but only of the Degrees on the Head, which are to take the Quantity of an Angle, the manner of doing which is eafy : For if the Angle be an inward Angle, as the Corner of a Room, &c. apply the two outward Edges of the Branches to the Walls or Planes forming the Angles, and then the Degrees cut by the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, will fhew the Quantity of the Angle fought. But if the Angle be an outward Angle, as the Corner of a Houfe, &c. you mu ft open the Branches 'till the two Points of the Callipers are outwards ; and then apply the ftraight Edges of the Branches to the Planes, or Walls, and the Degrees cut by the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, will be the Quantity of the Angle fought, reckoning from 180 towards the Right-Hand.
