
Equinoctial-Dial one parallel to the Equiparallel to a Vertical Circle ; and so of others.

There are two iorts of Styles placed on the Surfaces of Dials ; one is called a Right Style, which is a pointed Iron-Rod, that fhews the Hour or Part on a Dial by the Shadow of its Extremity •, and the other is called an oblique or inclined Style, or else the Axis, which fhews the Time of Day upon a Dial by the Shadow of the whole Length thereof.

The Extremity of the right Style of any Dial, reprefents the Center of the World and Equator, and the Plane of a Dial is supposed to be as far distant from the Center of the Earth, as is the Length of the right Style. For because the Sun's Distance from the Center of the Earth is so great, and the Distance of any Point in the Earth's Superficies from the Center is so small, compared with the Sun's Distance ; therefore any Point on the Earth's Surface may without any fenfible Error be taken for its Center : and so the Extremity of the Style of any Dial may be taken for the Center of the Earth ; and a Line parallel to the Axis of the World, which passes thro' the Extremity of the Style, may be confidered as the Axis of the World.

The Hour-Lines, which are drawn upon Dial-Planes, are the Interferons of the said Planes made by the Hour-Circles of the Sphere.

The Center of a Dial, is the Interfection of its Surface with the Axis of the Dial palling thro' the Extremity of the Style parallel to the Axis of the World ; and in this Center all the Hour-Lines meet each other.

All Dial-Planes may have Centers, except East, West, and Polar ones •, for on these the Hour- Lines are all parallel between themfelves.

The Vertical Line of a Dial- Plane, is a Pependicular drawn from the Extremity of the Style to the Foot thereof ; but the Vertical Line of the Place wherein the Dial is, is a right Line perpendicular to the Horizon drawn thro' the Extremity of the Style.

Dials have like wife two Meridians •, one of which is the fubftylar Line or proper Meri- dian of the Dial-Plane, because its Circle passes thro' the Vertical Line of the Dial-Plane-, and the other, which is the Meridian of the Place, hath its Meridian Circle passing thro' the Vertical Line of the Place.

When a Dial declines neither to the East or West, the fubftylar Line, or Meridian of the Plane, coincides with the Meridian of the Place or Hour-Line of 12, let the Surface of the Dial be Vertical, Horizontal, or even inclined upwards or downwards.

The Horizontal Line of a Dial-Plane, is the common Section of the said Plane, and a horizontal or level Line passing thro' the Extremity of the Style ; and the Equinoctial Line is the common Section of the Dial- Plane and Equinoctial Circle : and this Line is always perpen- dicular to the fubftylar Line ; and confequendy if the Pofition of the fubftylar Line be known, and a Point of the Equinoctial Line be given, we may likewise have the Pofition of the Equinoctial Line : and contrariwife, if the Equinoctial Line be given, we may have the fubftylar Line, which is perpendicular thereto. Note, This fubftylar Line must pass thro' the Foot of the Style and the Center of the Dial.

The Hour- Line of fix always palTts thro' the Interfection of the Horizontal and Equi- noctial Lines in declining Dials ; and so the said Point of Interfection is one Point of the Hour-Line of fix. Note, The Point wherein the Subftyle and Meridian Lines meet, is the Center of the Dial.

When a Dial is to be drawn upon a Plane, you mud first find the Pofition of the said Plane, or of the Wall it is to be fet up against, with regard to the Sun and the prin- cipal Circles of the Sphere: And this may be done, in obferving several Times the fame Day, at every 3 or 4 Hours interval, where the Shadow of the Extremity of a Style falls upon the Dial-Plane: for by this means the Pofition of the Dial- Plane may be deter- mined, and afterwards all the Hour-Lines, &e. may be drawn thereon in the manner we mail hereafter (hew. Note, The Exactnefs of a Dial very much depends upon these Points.

CHAP. I-

Of Regular and Irregular Dials, drawn upon Planes and Bodies

of different Figures.

Plate 11 ^ Jj ^ H I S Instrument reprefents a hollow Body, having 14 Planes, upon each of which a pi u ' J[ Dial may be drawn.

The upper Plane A, is parallel to the Horizon •, and so upon this a Horizontal-Dial is drawn, as well as upon the under Plane E, whereon the Sun mines but a very little. The Plane B is parallel to the Axis of the World, and makes an Angle of 49 Degrees with the Horizon of Paris ; for the Latitude of which, all the Dials are iuppofed to be drawn. Now upon this Plane is drawn an upper Polar Dial, and upon the Plane F, which is opposite thereto, is drawn an under Polar Dial. The Plane C is parallel to the Prime Vertical, and since it faces the South, there is drawn thereon a South Vertical Dial, And upon the op- pofite Plane to this, which is towards G, and faces directly to the North, is drawn a Vertical North Dial, which cannot be reprefented in this Figure.

The Plane H, which is parallel to the Equinoctial, and so makes an Angle with the Ho- rizon of 41 Deg. viz. the Complement of the Latitude of Paris, hath an upper Equinoctial Dial drawn upon it; and upon the opposite Plane D, is drawn an under Equinoctial Dial. The Plane K is parallel to the Plane of the Meridian, and because it directly faces the West, a Meridional Welt Dial is drawn thereon, and upon the opposite Plane to this is drawn a Meridional East Dial. The Plane I makes an Angle 45 Deg. with the Meridian ; and therefore there is drawn upon it a vertical Decliner, declining Southweltwardly 45 Deg. and upon the oppofire Plane to this is drawn a North-Eait Decliner of 45 Deg. Finally, The Plane L declines North-West 45 Deg. and its Oppofite 45 Deg. South-East ; and so upon these two Planes are drawn North- West and South-East Decliners.

The first Nine of the abovementioned Dials, are called Regular ones 5 and the Four others, which decline, are called Irregular Dials.

The Axes of all these Dials are parallel to each other, and to the Axis of the World. We mall hereafter give the Conftruction of all these Dials, as well as of those on the following Instrument, of which we are going to fpeak.

Tbe Conjlruclion of Dials drawn upon a Dodecahedron. Pi-. 2 _ This Figure is one of the five Regular Bodies, of which we have fpoken in the first

Book. This Body is called a Dodecahedron, and is terminated by 12 equal Pentagons, upon every of which may be drawn a Dial, except on the undermost.

The Plane A being Horizontal, hath a Horizontal-Dial drawn thereon, whose Hour-Line of 12 bifects one of the Angles of the Pentagon. Upon the Plane B, which faces the South, is drawn a direct South-Dial, inclining towards the Zenith, or upwards 63 Deg. 26 Min. The Center of this Dial is upwards, and the fubftylar Line is the Hour- Line of 12. The opposite Plane to this, is a North vertical one, inclining downwards or towards the Nadir 63 Deg. 26 Min. and so there is drawn thereon a North inclining Dial, whose Center is downwards.

The Dial C, is a South-East inclining Recliner, whose Declination is 36 Deg. and Inclina- tion to the Zenith 63 Deg. 26 Min. and its Center is downwards. The Dial D is a North- East Decliner of 72 Deg. inclining towards the Nadir 61 l&gt;g. 26 Min. the Center being upwards, and its opposite is a South- West Decliner of 72 Deg. inclining towards the Zenith ^3 Deg 26 Min. the Center being downwards.

Chap. i. of Sun-Dials. 21"

The Dial E is a North-East Decliner of 36 Deg. and inclines towards the Zenith 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Center being downwards. The opposite Dial to this, is a South- West Decliner of 36 Deg. and inclines towards the Nadir 63 Deg. 26 Min. it's Center being upwards. Fi- nally, the Dial F is a South- East Decliner of 72 Deg. inclining towards the Zenith 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Center being downwards ; and it's opposite is a North- West Decliner of 72 De?. inclining towards the Nadir 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Center thereof being upwards.

All these Dials are furniflied with their Axes, which are parallel between themfelves, and to the Axis of the World.

Now if one of these Bodies of Dials be {ct upon a Pedtftal, in a Place well expofed to the Sun, and then be fet right by means of a Compass or Meridian Line, drawn in the Man- ner we mall hereafter fhew •, all the Dials that the Sun mines upon will fhew the fame Hour or Part at the fame Time by the Shadows of the Styles.

But if a Dodecahedron of Dials be to be placed upon a Pedeftal fixed in a Garden, it ought to be made of solid Matter, as Stone or good Wood, well painted to preferve it from Rain, &c. therefore it will be here necefTary to fhew how to cut out a Dodecahedron.

Take a Stone cut out into a perfect Cube, and divide each of the four Sides of it's Faces Fig. 3. into two equal Parts, by two Diameters AC, BD. And at the Points A and C, make the Angles E AF, and H C G, each 116 Deg. 34 Min. that is, make Angles at the Points A and C, on each side the Diameter A C, of 58 Deg. 17 Min each : because all the Surfaces of the Dodecahedron make Angles of 116 Deg. 34 Min. with each other-, therefore two Faces thereof being horizontally placed, all the others will incline 63 Deg. 26 Min. the Complement of 116 Deg. 34 Min. to 180 Deg. Now the Space between F and G, or E H, will be the Length of each side of the Pentagons, half of which, viz. BF, must be taken and laid off both ways from the Point I to the Points Q^and X. And this must be done upon the Dia- meters crofting each other on all the other Faces of the Cube. Afterwards the Stone must be cut away along the Diameters to the Extremities of the Sides of the Pentagons : for Example, you must cut away the Stone down, or ail along the Diameter KM, in a Right Line to the Point Qjn the first Surface of the Cube, as likewise all along the Diameter L N ftrait for- wards to the Point S, and again all along the tJiameter B D directly forward to the Point T. And proceeding in this manner with the other Faces of the Cube, you may compleat your Dodecahedron. But it will be very proper for a Perfon that has a mind to cut out one of these Bodies, to have a Pafte'ooard one before him, thereby to help his Imagination, that so he may know better wnat Angles and Sides to cut away.

Cylinders may be cut likewise into Dodecahedrons, but let the Method above given suffice.

We make also very curious Dials on the Faces of small brafs Dodecahedrons.

The Conjlruftion of an Horizontal Dial.

The fourth Figure is an Horizontal Dial : To make which, first draw the two Lines A B, pi g&gt; , • C D, cutting each other at Right Angles in the Point E, which will be the Center of the Dial, the Line A B the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, and the Line CD the Hour-Line of 6. This being done, make the Angle B E F, 49 Deg. equal to the Elevation of the Pole at Paris (the Elevation of the Pole at Paris is but 48 Deg 5 1 Min. but we neglect the nine Minutes, as being but of small Confequence in the Conftruction of Dials) and the Line EF will reprefent the Axis of the World. In this the Point G must be chosen at pleafure, reprelenting the Center of the Earth, and G H must be drawn at Right Angles to E F, cutting the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12 in the Point H. This Line G H reprefents the Radius of the Equinoctial. Now take H G between your Compass s, which lay off from H to B on the Meridian Line, and draw the Right Line L H K perpendicular to the Meri- dian, which will reprefent the common Section of the Equinoctial, and the Plane of the Dial : then about the Point B, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant M H, which divide into fix equal Arcs, each of which will be 15 Deg. and draw the dotted Lines B 5, B 4, B 3, B 2, B 1. Thefe will divide the Line L H into the Points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, thro' which Points, if Lines be drawn from the Center E of the Dial, you will have the Hour-Lines of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, on. one side the Meridian; and because the Hour-Lines equally distant on both sides from the Meridian make equal Angles with the Meridian, therefore if the Divisions *» 2 &gt; 3&gt; A-&gt; 5&gt; on one side tne Meridian, be laid off from H towards K on the other side, and thro' the Points where they terminate are drawn Lines from the Center E ; these will be the Hour-Lines of 11, 10, 9, 8, 7. And if the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Morning are continued out beyond the Center, they will give the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Even- ing, and likewise the Hour-Lines of 4 and 5 in the Afternoon continued out in the fame manner, will give those of 4 and 5 in the Morning. Note y Inftead of drawing the Quadrant M H, we might, for greater facility, have only drawn an Arc greater than 60 Deg. for then if an Arc of 60 Deg. had been taken upon it from the Point H, by means of it's Chord, which is equal to Radius, and the said Arc had been divided in four equal Arcs, each of 15 Deg. and another Arc of 15 Deg. had been added to that of 60 Deg. for the Hour of 5, we might have drawn the Lines ii 1, 82, B 3, &c. as we have already done.

Now to draw the Half-hours, you must bifect each of the Arcs of 15 Deg. on the Qua- drant M H, in order to have Arcs of 7 Deg. 30 Min. and for the Quarters, each of these lad Arcs must be again bifected -, and thro' each Point of Division occult Lines must be drawn from the Center B, cutting the Equinoctial Line K L. Then if the Edge of a Ruler be laid thro' these Points of Concourfe and the Center E of the Dial, the Halfs and Quarters of Hours may be drawn.

The Hour-Lines being drawn upon your Dial, you may give it what Figure you pleafe, as a Parallelogram, regular Pentagon, fcfr.

This Dial being fixed upon a very level Plane, that is, fet parallel to the Horizon, expofed to the Sun, and it's Hour-Line of 12 placed exactly North and South •, as alio the Style or Axis E H F being raifed perpendicularly upon the Hour- Line of 12, so as E F be parallel to the Axis of the World: I fay, if these things be so ordered, the Shadow of the Axis or Style will fhew the Hour of the Day from Sun-rifing to Sun-fetting.

The ConJirutJion of a N on- declining Vertical Dial. F 'g« 5- This Dial is parallel to the Prime Vertical, which cuts the Meridian at Right Angles,

and partes thro' the East and West Points of the Horizon. The Manner of drawing it is thus : First draw the Lines EB and C D at Right Angles, the fir ft of which shall be the Hour-Line of 12, and the other the Hour-Line of 6 ; then make the Angle B E F at the Point E, the Center of the Dial, equal to the Complement of the Elevation of the Pole, which at Paris is 41 Deg. and raife the Line I G perpendicularly on the Meridian ; this will be the right Style, and the Point I is the Foot thereof, and G the Extremity, which, as above said, may be taken for the Center of the Earth : and this Line both ways produced, will be the Horizontal-Line.

From the Point G, in the Right Line E G F, which rcprefents the Axis of the World, raife the Line G H at Right Angles thereto, cutting the Meridian in B. This Line G H shall reprefent the Radius of the Equinoctial, and the Line L H K, drawn thro' the Point H, cutting the Meridian at Right Angles, reprefents the common Section of the Equinoctial and the Plane of the Dial. Now make H B equal to H G, and about the Point B, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant of a Circle M H, which divide into 6 equal Arcs, each of which will be 15 Deg. by dotted Lines, dividing the Line LK into unequal Parts, which shall be the Tangents of the said Arcs. Finally, If thro' those Points of Division and the Center E, you draw Lines, they will be the Hour-Lines on one side of the Meridian ; and for drawing the Hour-Lines on the other side the Meridian, as alio the Halves and Quarters of Hours, you must do as is fhewn in the Horizontal-L^ial.

This Dial is fet up against a Wall, or on a very upright Plane, directly facing the South ; for which reason it is called a Meridional Vertical Dial : it's Meridional or Hour-Line of 12 must be perfectly upright, and it's Horizontal-Line level. The Center thereof is upwards, and it's Axis points towards the under Pole. The opposite Dial to this, is a Vertical North one, having the Center downwards, and the Extremity of it's Axis pointing to the upper Pole of the World. The Conftruction of this latter Dial is the fame as that of the other, the Flour-Lines and the Axis making the fame Angles with the Meridian, as they do on that. But the Sun fhines but a small time upon this Dial, and this only in the Summer- time, viz. in the Morning from his rifing 'till he has passed the Prime Vertical, and in the Evening from the time he has again passed the Prime Vertical 'till his fetting. When the Sun defcribes the Summer Tropick, he rifes at Paris, at 4 in the Morning, and comes to the Prime Vertical between 7 and 8 in the Morning ; and in the Afternoon he repasses the Prime Vertical between 4 and 5, and fets at 8. Therefore we need only draw the Hour-Lines upon this Dial from 4 in the Morning to 8, and from 4 in the Afternoon to 8 ; at which time the Sun fhines upon the Meridional Vertical Dial, but from about 8 in the Morning to about 4 in the Afternoon. But when the Sun by his annual Motion is again come back to the Equinoctial, he will not fhine at all upon the Vertical North Dial till after he has croffed the Equinoctial again ; and all this time he will fhine upon the Meridional Vertical Dial from his rifing to his fetting.

The Conftrutlion of a Polar Dial.

Fig. 6. The 6th Figure reprefents an upper Polar Dial, which is one that inclines upwards, but

does not decline : for it is parallel to the Axis of the World, and the Hour-Circle of 6, which cuts the Meridian at Right Angles. And for this reason the Hour of 6 in the Morning or Evening can never be fhewn by this Dial ; for the Shadow of the Style being then parallel to the Plane of the Dial, cannot be caft upon it. This Dial likewise hath no Center, and the Hour-Lines are all parallel betv/een themfelvcs, and to the Axis of the World. The Plane therefore being parallel to the Horizon of a right Sphere, passes thro' the two Poles of the World, from whence comes the Name of a Polar Dial.

The Manner of drawing this Dial is thus : First draw the Line A B reprefenting the Equinoctial, and I D at Right Angles thereto, for the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12. Then affume the Length of the Style at pleafure, according to the bigness of the Plane the Dial is to be drawn on -, let this be CD, about the Extremity of which D defcribe a Quadrant, which divide into fix equal Arcs (or onlydefcribe an Arc of 60 Degrees, which divide into four Parts, of 15 Degrees each, for the four first Hours after Noon, and then' add an Arc of 15 Degrees for the flour of 5.)- This being done, draw dotted Lines from the Point D, thro' the Divilions of the Circumference of the said Arc, to the Line AB ; and then if Lines are drawn thro' the Points wherein the dotted Lines cut the Line AB, parallel to the Meridian, these Lines will be the Hour-Lines on one side the Meridian: and if there be as many Parallels drawn on the other side the Meridian, at the fame Distances therefrom as the refpective parallel Hour-Lines are on the other side, these will be the Hour-Lines on the other side of the Meridian. The Style of this Dial must be equal in Length to C F, the Distance from the Hour-Line of 3 to the Hour-Line of 12, and may be made in figure of a Right-angled Parallelogram, as is that marked above the Letter K in the Figure of the Dial. This Style is let upon the Hour-Line of 12, which for this Reason is called the Sub* ftylar Line.

If a fingle Rod only be used for a Style, as that which is in the Point C of the Meridian, then the Hour will be fhewn upon this Dial by the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style j whereas when a Parallelogram is used, we have the Hour fhewn by the Shadow of one ot ics Sides, that is, by a right Line.

An upper Polar Dial may fhew the Hour from seven in the Morning to five in the After- noon ; and an under Polar one is ufelefs, unlefs in the Summer, wherein the Hour is fhewn thereby, from the Sun's rifing to five in the Morning, and from kven in the Evening 'till his fetting: and so for the Elevation of the Pole of Paris, the Hours of four and five in the Morning, and seven and eight in the . Tternoon, are only fet down upon this Dial-, and these may be drawn as those on the upper Po&lt;ar Dial, for tile Distances of the Hour-Lines of four and five in the Afternoon from the Subftyle, on the upper Polar Dial, are equal to the Distances of the Hour-Lines of four and five in the Morning from the Subftyle on the under Polar Dial. Underftand the fame for the Hours of seven and eight in the Afternoon ; and therefore there is no need of drawing the Figure of this Dial. Note, The Distance of the Hour-Lines on these Dials depend upon the Breadth of the Style, or the Distance of the Point D from the Equinoctial Line.

To fet up this Dial at Pan's, the Plane thereof must make an Angle of 49 Deg. with the Horizon, the upper one facing the Sky directly South, that so the Axis thereof may be parallel to that of the World, and the opposite Dial to this, viz. the under Polar one faces downwards, the Morning Hours being, towards the West, and the Afternoon ones towards the East, on both the upper and under ones.

Now if the Horizontal Line is to be drawn upon this Dial, defcribe the Arc GH, about the Point F, the Extremity of the Style, equal to the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 49 Deg. for the Latitude of Paris, and draw the Right Line F H, cutting the Meridian in the Point I, thro' which draw the Horizontal Line L K, at Right Angles. Now by means of this Line, we may know whether the Dial be well placed, and have its convenient In- clination ; for if the Dial be inclined rightly, a Plane laid along the Horizontal Line, and fupported by the Edge of the Style, will be level or parallel to the Horizon.

A Polar Dial in a right Sphere is parallel to the Horizon, and in a parallel Sphere it is vertical or upright.

The ConftruRion of an EquinoRial Dial.

An upper Equinoctial Dial fhews the Hour but only fix Months in the Year, viz. from Fig. 7; the Vernal Equinox to the Autumnal one ; and the opposite Dial to this, which is an under Equinoctial one, fhews the Hour during the other fix Months of the Year, viz. from the Autumnal Equinox to the Vernal one.

The Plane of this Dial is parallel to the Equinoctial Circle, and is cut at Right Angles through the Center thereof by the Axis of the World.

The Conftruction of this Dial is thus : Draw two Right Lines AH, and ED, crofting each other at Right Angles, the first of which shall be the Hour-Line of 12, and the other the Hour-Line of 6 ; then about the Point A of Interferon defcribe a Circle, each quarter of which divide into fix equal Parts, thro' which, if ftrait Lines be drawn from the Center A, these Lines will be the Hour-Lines, because they each make equal Angles of 15 Deg. and if each of these Angles be halved and quartered, the halves and quarters of Hours will be had.

The Conftruction of an under Equinoctial Dial is the fame as of an upper one ; and in a parallel Sphere, viz. where the Pole is in the Zenith, there is but one Equinoctial Dial, which will likewise be there an Horizontal one. And in a right Sphere, viz. where the two Poles are in the Horizon, these Dials are non-declining Vertical ones &gt; ar &gt;d are fet up against Walls, one of which faces the North Pole, and the other the South Pole, the Sun fhining upon each fix Months in the Year. But in an oblique Sphere, as that which we inhabit, these Diais are inclined to the Horizon, and make an Angle therewith equal to the Comple- ment of the Latitude, viz. at Paris, an Angle of 41 Deg.

The Axis of an Equinoctial Dial is a ftrait Iron Rod going thro' the Center of the Dial perpendicular to the Plane thereof, and parallel to the Axis of the World. The Length of this Rod may be at pleafure, when it hath no other Use but fhewing the Hour by the Shadow thereof; but when the Length of the Days, and the Sun's Place are to be fhewn thereby, the. said Rod must have a determinate Length, as we (hall fhtw hereafter.

The ConftruElion of Eqft and IVefi Dials.

Fig. 8. Thefe Dials are parallel to the Plane of the Meridian •, one of which direcTtly faces the East,

and the other the West. The 8th Figure is a West Dial, having the Hour-Lines parallel to each other, and to the Axis of the World, as in a Polar Dial, and their Conftruction is near- ly the fame as of the Hour-Lines on a Polar Dial.

This Dial is made thus : First draw the right Line A B, rcprefenting the Horizontal Line, and about the Point A, affume the Arc B C of a Radius at pleafure in this Line, equal to the Complement of the Latitude, or Height of the Equator above the Horizon, which at Paris is 41 Deg. Then draw the Line C D, produced, as is necefTary, from the Point C, and this Line shall reprefent the common Section of the Equinoctial and Plane of the Dial ; after this, draw ED from the Point D, parallel to the Equinoctial Line, and this Line ED will be the Place of the Subftyle, that is, the Line on which the Style must be placed ; as like- wife the Hour-Line of Six. Now to draw the other Flour-Lints, affume the Point E at pleafure on the fubftylar Line, about which, as a Center, defcribe an Arc of 60 Deg. which divide into four equal Parts for 15 Deg. each, beginning from the fubftylar Line. After this, lay off as many Arcs of 15 Deg. as is necefTary upon the said Arc both ways continued, and draw dotted Lines from the Center E thro' all the Divisions of the Arc to the Equi- noctial Line : then if right Lines .be drawn thro' the Points in the Equinoctial Line, made by the dotted Lines, parallel to the Hour-Line of 6, and perpendicular to the Equinoctial Line •, these Lines will be the Hour-Lines. Note., This Dial fhews the Time of Day after Noon to the Setting of the Sun •, and since the Sun fets (at Paris) at Eight o'Clock in the Summer, we have pricked down the Flour-Lines from One to Eight in this Dial, as appears fer Figure.

The Conftruction of an East Dial is the fame as of this ; and there are pricked down the Hour-Lines upon it from the Sun's rifing in Summer, viz. from Four in the Morning to Eleven. The reason that the Hour-Line of Twelve cannot be drawn upon these Dials, is, because when the Sun is in the Meridian, his Rays are parallel to their Planes.

If a West Dial be drawn upon a Sheet of Paper, and then the said Paper is rendered Tranfparent by oiling, you will perceive thro' the backfide of the Paper an East Dial drawn entirely •, only the Figures of the Hours must be altered, that is, you must put 1 1 in the Place of 1 •, 10 in the Place of 2 ; and fb ot others.

The Style of these Dials is a Brass or Iron Rod, in Length equal to E D, which is like- wife equal to the Distance of the Hour of 3 from the Hour of 6. This Style is fet upright in the Point D, and fhews the Hovr by the Shadow of it's Extremity. Thefe Dials, which may have likewise a Style in figure of a Parallelogram, as we have mentioned in fpeaking of Polar Dials, are fet upright against Walls or Planes, perpendicular to the Horizon, and pa- rallel to the Meridian, one of which directly faces the East, and the other the West, in such manner, that the Horizontal Line be perfectly level.

The ConftruRion of Vertical Declining Dials.

A Vertical Dial is one that is made upon a Vertical Plane, that is, a Plane perpendicular to the Horizon, as a very upright Wall.

Among the nine Regular Dials of which we have fpoken, there are four of them Vertical ones, which do not decline at all, since they directly face the four Cardinal Parts of the World. It now remains that we here fpeak of Irregular Dials, some of which are vertical Decliners, others undeclining Decliners, and finally, others declining Incliners. Vertical Decliners are of four Kinds : for some decline South-eaftwardly, the opposite ones to these, North-weftwardly, others decline South-weftwardly, and the opposite ones to these, North- eaftwardly.

Now among the Irregular Dials, the vertical Decliners are most in ufe, because they are made upon or fet up against Walls (which commonly are built upright), or else upon Bodies whose Planes are upright ; but before these Dials can be made, the Declinations of the Walls or Planes, on which they are to be made or fet up against, must first be known or found exactly : and this may be done by some one of the Methods hereafter men- tioned.

Fig. 9. Now suppose we know that a Plane (as that marked I of Figure 1.) or upright Wall, declines 45 Deg. South-weftwardly at Paris, or thereabouts, where the Pole is elevated 49 Deg. above the Horizon. It is required to draw a Dial for this Declination.

First, draw the Lines A B, CD, croffing each other at Right Angles in the Point E, the former of which shall be the Hour-Line of 12, and the other the FIorizontal'Line. About the Point E, as a Center, draw the Arc F N of 45 Deg. because the Plane's Declination is such, and since it is South-weftwardly, the said Arc must be drawn on the Right-side of the Meridian •, but if the Declination had been South-eaftwardly, that Arc must have been drawn

Chap, r . of Sun-Dials, %iy

drawn on the Left-side the Meridian. This being done, raife the Perpendicular FH from the Point F to the horizontal Line, that so we may hate one Point of the Style therein, viz. the Foot of the Style. Then take the Distance E F between your Compares, and lay it off upon the horizontal Line from E to O, and about the Point O, as a Center, defcribe the Arc E G equal to the Height of the Pole, viz. in this Cafe 49 Deg. and draw the dotted Line O A to the Hour-Line of 12 ; then A will be the Center of the Dial thro' which the Subftyle A H mud be drawn of an indeterminate Length. Note, This Subftyle is one of the principal Lines, by means Of which a Dial of this kind is drawn, and upon which the whole Exactnefs thereof almost depends.

Upon the Point H raife the right Line H I equal to H F, perpendicular to the Subftyle A H, and draw the right .Line A I, prolonged, for the Axis of the Dial. Then let fall the Perpendicular K I to the Axis, cutting the fubftylar Line in K, and make K L equal to % I, and draw a right Line both ways thro' the Point K, perpendicular to the Subftyle A K •, this will reprefent the Equinoctial Line, and cuts the Horizontal Line in a Point thro' which the Hour- Line of 6 must pass. Thus having already the Hour-Lines of 12 and 6, if the Operations hitherto performed have been done right, two dotted Lines L 6, and LN being drawn, will be at Right Angles to each other. Again, About the said Point L, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant of a Circle between the said dotted Lines, whole Circumference divide into 6 equal Arcs, of 15 Degrees each, and draw occult Lines thro' the Points of Division to cut the Equinoctial Line ; but to have the Morning Hour-Lines, and those after 6, prolong the Arc of the Quadrant both ways, and lay off as many Arcs of 15 Degrees upon it, as is neceffary, that so occult Lines may be drawn from the Center L to cut the Equinoctial Line. Then if Lines are drawn from the Center A thro' all the Points wherein. the occult Lines cut the Equinoctial Line, these Lines thus drawn will be the Hour- Lines. Note, There must be but 12 Hour-Lines drawn upon any vertical declining Plane, for the Sun will fhine on any one of them but 12 Hours.

Points in the horizontal Line D C, thro' which the Hour-Lines must pass, may be found otherwise, by applying the Center of a horizontal Dial to the Point F, in such manner, that the Meridian Line thereof coincides with the Line F E, and it's Hour-Line of 6, with the Line F 6 : for then the Points where the Hour- Lines of the horizontal Dial cut the said Line D C, will be the Points therein thro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn from the Center A.

The Hour- Lines of fix Hours fuccefiively being given upon the Plane of any Dial what- foever, the other Hour-Lines may be drawn after the following Manner : Suppose, in this Example, that the Hour-Lines from 6 to 12 are drawn j now if you have a mind to draw the Hour-Lines of 9, 10 and 11 in the Morning, which may be pricked down upon this Dial, draw a Parallel, as S V, from the Point V, taken at pleafure on the Hour-Line of 12, to the Hour-Line of 6, which shall cut the Hour-Lines of 1, 2, and 3, in the Afternoon. This being done, the Distance from V to the Hour- Line of 1 taken on this Parallel, and laid off on the other Side, will give a Point in the said Parallel thro' which the Hour-Line of 11 must be drawn -, likewise the Distance V 2 will give a Point thereon, thro' which the Hour Line of 10 must be drawn ; and the Distance V 3 will give a Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 9 must pass. And so if Lines are drawn from the Center of the Dial A thro* the said Points, they will be the Hour-Lines.

In this manner likewise may be found the Points thro' which the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Evening are drawn, in first drawing a Parallel to the Hour-Line of 12, cutting the Hour-Line of 6 in one Point, and meeting the Hour-Lines of 4 and 5 produced •, for the Distance from the Points where the Hour-Lines of 6 and 5 are cut by this Parallel, laid off on the other Side from the Point where the Hour-Line of 6 cuts the Parallel, will give a Point upon it thro' which the Hour-Line of 7 must be drawn. And the Distance from the Points where the Parallel cuts the Hour-Lines of 6 and 8, laid off on the other Side on that Parallel, will give a Point therein thro' which the Hour-Line of 8 must pass «, and if Lines are drawn from the Center A thro' those two Points found, they will be the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Evening. This is a very good way of drawing those Hour-Lines that are pretty distant from the fubftylar Line, because thereby we avoid cutting the Equinoctial very obliquely.

The Conftruction of a South-East vertical Decliner is the fame as of that which we have defcribed, excepting only that what was there made on the Right must here be on the Left, and the Figures for the Morning Hours fet to those for the Afternoon : so that if a South- West declining Dial be drawn upon a Sheet of Paper, and afterwards the Paper be oiled, that you may fee thro' it, you will fee a South-East Decliner thro' the Paper •, only the Fi- gures fet to the Hour-Lines must be altered •, as, where the Figure of 1 ftands, you must fet 11 ; where the Figure of 2, 10 ; where the Figure of 3, 9 ; and so on. By this means the iubftylar Line, which falls between the Hour-Lines of 3 and 4 Afternoon, in Figure 9, will fall in this Dial between 8 and 9 in the Morning. And if the Plane's Declination had been ltfs than 45 Deg. the Subftyle would have fallen yet nearer to the Meridian : but if, on the contrary, the Declination thereof had been greater, the Subftyle would have fallen more distant from the Meridian, and pretty near the Hour-Line of 6. But when this happens, the Hour-Lines fall so clofe together near the Subftyle, that we are obliged to make the Model of a Dial upon a very large Plane, that so the Hour-Lines may be very long, and the part of the Dial towards the Center taken away.

After the abovenamed manner, likewise may be drawn North-East and North- West Dials • but these have their Centers downwards underneath the Horizontal Line, and properly are no other but South-East or South-West Decliners inverted, as may be feen in Figure 10, which reprefents a North-Weil Decliner of 45 Deg. drawn for the Plane L of Figure 1. and the fubftylar Line of this Dial mud be between the Hours of 8 and 9 in the Evening, whence one Decliner only may ferve for drawing four, if they have an equal Declination, tho' to different Coafts; two of which will have their Centers upwards, and the other two their Centers downwards.

To draw the Subjlylar Line upon a Plane by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of an Iron-

Rod, observed twice the fame Day.

Suppose the Subftylar Line is to be found on the Decliner of Figure 9, first place obliquely upon the Dial-Plane, a Wire or Iron Rod, fharp at the end, so that the Extremity thereof be perpendicularly over the Point H in the Plane. This may be done by means of a Square.

Now since this Figure is a South-West vertical Decliner, therefore the Subftylar Line

thereon must be found among the Afternoon Hours, to the Right-hand of the Meridian ; and confequently, let us suppose the Shadow of the Extremity of the Iron- Rod at the rirft Obfervation to fall on the Point P ; then about the Point H, the Foot of the Style, with the Distance HP, defcribe the circular Arc PR. This being done, some Hours after the first Obfervation the fame Day, obferve when the Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod falls a second time upon the aforsaid Arc, which suppose in the Point Qj then if the Arc PQ^be bifected in the Point R, and a Right-line be drawn thro' the Points R and H ; this Line will be the Subftyle, which being exactly drawn, and the Height of the Pole above the Horizon of the Place where the Dial is made for, being otherwise known, it will not then be difficult to compleat the Dial ; for first, the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12 is always perpendicular to the Horizon, in vertical Planes, and the Point wherein the Meridian and Subftylar Line produced meet each other, (as the Point A) will be the Center of the Dial. The Horizontal Line is a level Line palling thro' the Foot of the Style, as DHC.

And to draw the Equinoctial Line, you must first form the Triangular Style AHI on the Subftyle, whose Hypothenufe A I is the Axis, and Side FI I the right Style; then if I K be drawn from the Point I perpendicular to the Axis, meeting the Subftylar Line in the Point K; and if thro' K a Right Line MKN be drawn at Right Angles to the Stylar Line, this Line will be the Equinoctial, and the Point wherein it cuts the Horizontal Line will be always the Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 6 must pass. Moreover, the Distance K L, laid off on the Stylar Line, will give the Point L the Center of the Equinoctial Circle. Now what remains to be done, may be compleated as before explained ; and even the whole Dial may be drawn in one's Room, after the Pofitions and Concourfes of the principal Lines are laid off upon a Sheet of Paper, and the Angle which the Subftylar Line makes with the Meridian or Horizontal Line be taken ; for one is the Complement of the other.

Now to prove whether the Equinoctial Line be drawn right, make the Angle BAO equaj to the Complement of the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 41 Deg. for the Latitude of Paris, draw the Line AO to the Horizon, and make the Angle AON a Right one, that so the Point N may be had in the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, thro' which the Equinoctial Line must pass. Thus having several Ways for finding the principal Points, one of them will ferve to prove the other.

When a Dial Plane declines South-eaftwardly, the Subftylar Line will be on the right Side of the Meridian. In which Cafe it is proper to take notice, that in finding the Subftylar Line, as above, to obferve when the Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod falls upon the Plane, as foon as the Sun begins to fhine thereon ; as likewise to mind the Time very exactly when the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style comes again to touch the circular Arc •, you may operate in this manner several Days fucceflively, in order to fee whether the Pofition of the Subftylar Line has been found exactly.

When a Plane declines North-East or North-West, the Shadows of the Extremity of the Iron Rod fall above the Foot of the Style, and so the Center of the Dial must be down- wards. Likewise the most proper Time for making these Operations is about 15 Days be- fore or after the Solftices, for when the Sun is near the Equinoctial, his Declination is too fenfible, and the Operations less exact. Neverthelefs the Equinoctial Line may be drawn up- on a Plane, when the Sun is in the Equinoctial Points, and by that means a vertical declining Dial conftructed, by the following Method.

To draw the EqninoEfial Line upon a vertical Plane by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of

The most fimple and eafy Method to draw the Equinoctial Line upon a Wallat tke Time when the Sun is in the Equinoctial, (though this may be done at any other

Chap. i. of Snn-T)ia!s. 219

Time by more complicated Methods) for when the Sun defcribes the Equinoctial by his diurnal Motion, the Shadows of the Extremity of the Iron-Rod or Style, will all fall upon a Plane in a right Line, which is the common Section of the Equinoctial Circle, of the Heavens and the Plane. Therefore if several Points, pricked down upon a Plane, made by the Sha- dow of the Extremity of the Rod, on the Day the Sun is in the Equator, be joined, the ri^ht Line joining them will be the Equinoctial Line, as the Line M N, in Figure 9. This being done, draw the right Line A H L thro' the Foot of the Style at Right Angles to the Equinoctial Line, and this will be the'Subitylar Line: Moreover, draw the level Line D'HC thro' the Foot H of the Style ; this will be the Horizontal Line ; and if H I be drawn equal to the Height of the right Style, and parallel to the Equinoctial Line and the Points K and L joined ; and if A I be drawn at Right Angles to K I, then the Point A will be the Center of the Dial, and the upright Line AB the Meridian or Hour- Line of 12. The common Section of the Equinoctial and Horizontal Lines, will likewise be the Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 6 must pass, and confequently wherewith the Dial may be finifhed. Note, The Angle H F E will be the Plane's Declination.

To draw a Dial upon a Vertical Plane by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of an Iron- Rod or Style observed upon the Plane at Noon.

A Style, as H I {Vide Figure 9.), being fet up on a Wall or Dial Plane, whose Foot is H, and Extremity I ; and if you know by any means when it is Noon, which may be known by a Meridian Line drawn upon a Horizontal Plane, as we shall mention hereafter, note where the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style H I falls upon the Plane at Noon, which suppose in the Point N, and thro' this Point draw the Perpendicular A N B, which confe- quently will be the Meridian of the Place or Hour-Line of 12 ; then draw the level Line CFI D, cutting the Meridian at Right Angles in the Point E ; this will be the Horizontal Line. Again,. Draw H F equal in Length to the right Style H I, and parallel to the Meri- dian ; then take the Hypothenufe E F between your Compasses, and lay it off upon the Ho- rizontal Line from E to O, and make the Angle E O A equal to the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 49 Deg. and then the Point A will be the Center of the Dial.

Likewise make the Angle EON, underneath the Horizontal Line, equal to the Comple- ment of the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 41 Deg. and the Point N on the Meridian Line will be that thro' which the Equinoctial Line mult pass. Then if the right Line A H K be drawn thro' the Center A, and the Foot of the Style H, this will be the Subftylar Line ; and if a Perpendicular be drawn thro' the Point N to this Line, the said Perpendicular will be the Equinoctial Line. Thus having found the principal Lines of the Dial, you may compleat it by the Methods before explained.

This Method of drawing a Dial at any Time of the Year, by means of the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style H I observed at Noon, may ferve, when it is not poffible to find the Subftylar Line by the Obfervations of the Shadows of the Extremity of an Ir,on-Rod or Style, which happens when Planes decline considerably Eastwards or West wards.

There are several other Methods of drawing Vertical Dials on Walls or Planes : but those would take up too much time to mention in this small Treatife, wherein we have only laid down the most fimple and eafy Methods of drawing Vertical Dials. And in order to dr^w Dials more exactly, we shall hereafter lay down Rules for calculating the Angles the Hour-Lines make at the Centers j and so the other Methods may be verified by thefc Rules.

The ConflruRion of Non-declining inclining Dials.

The Inclinations of these Dials are the Angles that their Planes make with the Horizon, and some of them face the Heavens, and others the Earth. There are likewise two Kinds of them with regard to the Pole ; and two other Kinds with regard to the Equi- noctial.

If a Plane facing the South hath an Inclination towards the North, this Inclination may be Fig. 11, iz, less or greater than the Elevation of the Pole ; for if the Inclination be equal to the Elevation of the Pole, this Dial- Plane will be an upper or under Polar one, whose Conftruction we have already laid down.

If the Inclination be less than the Elevation of the Pole, which at Paris is nearly 49 Deg. and you would make a Dial upon a Plane facing the South, having 30 Deg. of Inclination towards the North, fubftract 30 Deg. from 49 Deg. and the Remainder 19 Deg. will be the Height of the Axis or Style above the Plane. Then if a Horizontal Dial be made upon this Plane for the Latitude of 19 Deg. in the manner we have already laid down, we shall have an Incliner of 30 Deg. drawn, because the said Plane thus inclined is parallel to the Horizon of those Places where the Pole is elevated 19 Deg. and confequently this must be a Horizon- tal Dial for those Places. The Center of this Dial is downwards, underneath the Equinoctial Line, and the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left, and the Afternoon ones on the Right-hand ot those looking at them.

The under opposite Dial to this, which faces towards the North, is the fame as the upper one facing towards the South, excepting only that the Center is upwards above the

Equinoctial Line, and the Morning Hour-Lines on the Right, and the Afternoon ones on the Left-hand.

If the Inclination of the Plane be greater than the Elevation of the Pole, suppose at Paris, and it be 63 Deg. fubftract the Elevation of the Pole 49 Deg. from 63 Deg. and the Remainder will be 14 Deg. and then make an Horizontal Dial for this Elevation of 14 Deo-, and you will have an Incliner of 63 Deg. the Center of the upper Plane facing towards the South, is upwards above the Equinoctial Line, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left-hand, those of the Afternoon towards the Right ; and in the opposite under Plane facing towards the North, the Center is downwards, the Morning Hours on the Right, and those of the Afternoon on the Left, as may be feen in Figure 1 1 and 12.

If the Plane faces the North, and inclines Southwards, the Inclination thereof may be less or greater than that of the Equinoctial ; for if it be equal, we need only make an upper or under Equinoctial Dial thereon, which is a Circle divided into 24 equal Parts, as is above di- rected in fpeaking of Regular Dials.

If the Inclination be less than the Elevation of the Equinoctial, as, suppose a Plane at Paris inclines 30 Deg. Southwardly, add the 30 Deg. of Inclination to 49 Deg. the Height of the Pole, and make an Horizontal Dial for the Elevation of 79 Deg. and your Dial will be drawn : the Center of the upper Dial facing Northwardly, will be upwards, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Right-hand, the Afternoon ones on the Left •, and on the opposite under Dial to this, the Center will be downwards, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left, and the Afternoon ones on the Right-hand.

Finally, If the Inclination, which suppose 60 Deg. be greater than the Height of the Equinoctial, add the Complement of the Inclination, which is 30 Deg. to the Elevation of the Equinoctial, which is 41 Deg. at Paris, and the Sum is 71 Deg. and make an Horizontal Dial for this Elevation of the Pole. The Center of the upper one of these Dials is down- wards, the Morning Hour-Lines on the Right-hand, and the Center of the opposite under Dial is upwards, and the Morning Hour-Lines on the Left-hand.

Note, The Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, is the Subftylar Line of all Non-declining in- clining Dials, passes thro' their Centers at right Angles to the Hour-Lines of 6, and may be drawn by means of the Shadow of a Plumb-Line patting thro' their Centers.

There ought to have been eight Figures to reprefent all these different Dials, viz. four for the upper ones, and four for the under ones ; but since they are not difficult to be conceived or drawn, we have only reprefented two of them, with refpect to the Dodecahedron on which we place them.

The Conjlruftion of Declining inclining Dials.

The Declination of a Dial is the Angle that the Plane thereof makes with the Prime Ver- tical ; and it's Inclination is the Angle made by the Plane thereof witn the Horizon : both of which we mall fhew how to find hereafter.

Now suppose, for Example, that a Dial is to be drawn upon a Plane declining 36 Deg. South-eaftwardly, and inclining 63 Deg. 26 Min. towards the Earth, as does the Plane C on the Dodecahedron of Figure 2.

But before we fhew how to draw this Dial, you must first obferve that the Horizontal Line, which paries thro' the Foot of the Style in Vertical Dials, must in no wife pals thro' it in inclining Dials ; for in upper Incliners facing the Heavens, this Line muff be drawn above the Foot of the Style, and in under Incliners, facing the Earth, below the Foot of the Style. Secondly, The Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, in inclining Dials, does not cut the Horizontal Line at right Angles, as it does in Vertical Dials, but must be drawn thro' two Points ; one of which is found upon the Horizontal Line by means of the Angle of De- clination, and the other upon a Vertical Line cutting the Horizontal one at right Angles.

This last Point in upper Incliners is called the Zenith Point, because if the Sun was in the Zenith of the Place for which the Dial is made, the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style would fall upon that Point, which confequently will be underneath the Style of these Dials. And in under Incliners, the said Point is called the Nadir Point, because if the Sun was in the Nadir, and the Earth tranfparent, the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style would touch that Point, which confequently will be above the Style, as in the proposed Dial.

Thirdly, The Center of the proposed under Dial which declines South-eaftwardly must be upwards, the Subftylar Line to the Left-hand of the Vertical Line, and the Meridian among the Morning Hour-Lines, and so on the Right of the Vertical Line. The Centers of upper Dials declining South-weftwardly must be likewise upwards, the Subftylar Line on the Right- hand of the Vertical one, and the Meridian among the Afternoon Hour-Lines ; and the op- pofite upper Dials to these, have their Centers downwards, and are no other but these Dials inverted : and therefore one of these four Dials is enough to be drawn. F 'g- «3- In order for this, let it be required to draw a Dial upon a Plane of the abovefaid Decli-

nation and Inclination. First, Draw the two Lines Ajf, CD, cutting each other at right Angles in the Point E -, then let C D be parallel to the Horizon, and upon it aflume E F at pleafure, for the Length of the right Style, whose Foot fhaH be E, and Extremity F, and about the Center F defcnbe the Arc G H, equal to the Plane's Inclination, viz. 6% Deg. 26 Min. and draw the right LineAF; likewifc make the Angle G FI equal to the Comple- ment of 63 Deg. 26 Min. viz. 26 Deg. 34 Min. This being done, the Point A will be the Nadir, and one Point of the Meridian Line, and if a right Line M L N be drawn thro' the Point L, parallel to CD, this will be the horizontal Line ; and if the Distance LF be taken between your Cotnpasses, and laid off from L to O, the Point O will be the Center tfiro' which Lines may be drawn dividing the horizontal Line. Again, About the Point O defcribe the Arc L P of 36 Deg. viz. the Plane's Declination, and draw the Line O P cut- ting the horizontal Line MLN in the Point 12 ; then if a right Line be drawn thro' the Nadir A and this Point 12, the said Line A 12 will be the Meridian of the Dial or Hour- Line of 12 : and moreover, if an Angle be made at the Point O on the Left-side of the Line AB, equal to the Complement of the Plane's Declination, which here is 54 Deg. you will have a Point on the horizontal Line thro' which the Hour-Line of 6, as likewise the Equinoctial Line, must pass.

The next thing to be found is another Point, besides E the Foot of the Style, thro' which the fubftylar Line must pass ; and in order for this, we need only find the Center of the Dial, after the following manner.

Draw the Line M R from the Point M, (thro' which the Hour- Line of 6 passes) at right Angles to the Meridian A 12, lay off the Distance O 12, from 12 to R, or else the Distance AF from A to R, draw the occult Line 12 R, and about the Point R defcribe the Arc NK, of 49 Deg. viz. the Elevation of the Pole; then if RK be drawn cutting the Me- ridian in the Point K, this will be the Center of the Dial. After this, the Subftylar Line K E may be drawn ; and if the Perpendicular M QJ)e drawn to this Line thro' the Point M, the said MQ^will be the Equinoctial Line. Moreover, the Point in the Meridian Line thro' which the Equinoctial Line must pass, may be found by making the Angle N R Q^ of 41 Deg. that is, the Complement of the Elevation of the Pole.

ThePofitions of the principal Lines being thus found, it will not now be difficult to find the Points on the horizontal or equinoctial Lines, thro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn ; for if the Points are to be found upon the horizontal Line you must apply the Center of a horizontal Dial to the Point O, in such manner, that the Hour-Line of 12 anfwers to the Line O 12, and the Hour-Line of 6 to the Line O 6 : then the Points in the horizontal Line M N, thro' which the other Hour-Lines must be drawn, may be determined eafily. And if the Points thro' which the Hour-Lines must pass on the equinoctial Line be to be found, you must raife the Perpendicular E S on the Subftyle equal to E F, and draw the Axis S K ; and afterwards take the Distance T S between your Compasses, and lay off on the Subftyle from T to V, then V will be the Center of the Equinoctial Circle, by means of which the Equinoctial Line may be divided, as we have directed in fpeaking of declining Dials, and the Hour-Lines drawn thro' the Center of the Dial K. Your Dial being thus made, you may draw a fair Draught thereof, wherein are only the principal Lines, and the Hour-Lines, as may be feen in the Pentagonal Figure marked 14.

By means of this Dial three others of the fame Declination and Inclination may be made. The two under ones declinining South-eaftwardly and South-weftwardly, have their Centers upwards •, and the two upper ones, which decline North-eaftwardly and North-weftwardly, their Centers downwards, and are only the two former Dials inverted, as we have al- ready mentioned.

The Dial of the Figure 15, reprefents that marked F in Figure 2, and is an upper Incliner of 63 Deg. 26 Min. declining South-eaftwardly 72 Deg. and may be drawn by the abovefaid Method. The Center of this Dial is upwards, and because it has a great Declination, the Hour-Lines will fall very clofe to one another near the Subftylar Line; and therefore it ought to be drawn upon a large Plane, that so the Part thereof next to the Center may be taken away, and the Style and the Hour-Lines terminated by two Parallels.

There is another way of drawing Mechanically any forts of Dials whatfoever, upon Po- lyhedrons or Bodies of different Faces or Superficies, without even knowing the Declina- tions or Inclinations of the Faces or Superficies, and that with as much exactnefs as by any other Methods whatfoever. In order to do this, you must first make an horizontal Dial up- on one of the Planes or Faces that is to be fet parallel to the Horizon, and fet up the Style thereof upon the Hour-Line of 12, conformable to the Latitude of the Place. After this, the Subftylar Lines must be drawn upon all the Planes or Faces of the Polyhedron that the Sun can fhine upon, that so Brass or Iron Styles, proportioned to the bigneffes of the Planes, or Faces, may be fixed upon them perpendicularly in such manner, that the Axes or upper Edges of the said Styles be parallel to the Axis of the horizontal Dial. This may be done in filing them away in right Lines by Degrees, until their Axes, being compared with the Axis of a large Style similar to that of the horizontal Dial placed level, (or held up so that its Base be parallel to the Horizon, by means of a Thread and Plummet hung to the Top of the Style) appear in a right Line with the Axis of the said Style.

Things being thus ordered, fet your Polyhedroh in the Sun, and turn it about, making the Shadow of the Axis of the horizontal Dial fall upon each Hour-Line thereof fucceffively, and if at each of the refpective Times right Lines be drawn along the Shadows of the Axes of the Styles of the other Faces of the Body upon the said Faces, these will be the fame Hour-Lines upon each of the Faces of the Body, that the Shadow of the Style of the Hori- zontal Dial fell upon, on the Horizontal Dial. For example ; Suppcfe the Shadow of the Axis of the Horizontal Dial falls upon the Hour Line of 12 ; then at the fame time draw Lines along the Shadows of the Styles upon the other Faces of the Body, and those Lines will be the Hour-Lines of 12 upon the said Faces: underftand the fame for others. This may be done likewise in the Night, by the Light of a Link moved about the Polyhedron.

There are great Stone Bodies cut into several Faces placed fometimes in Gardens hav- ing Dials drawn upon them, according to the aboveiaid Method, And the Edges of the Stone which ferve for Axes to some of these Dials, must be cut so as to be parallel to the Axis of the World.

'The Arithmetical ConfiruUion of Dials by the Calculation of Angles.

This Method is a great help for verifying any Operations in Dialling, wherein there is crreat Exactnefs required, and chiefly when we are obliged to make a small Model for drawino- a large Dial : for an Error almost infenfible in the Model, will become very confiderable in the long Hour- Lines to be drawn upon a large Plane.

In the Conftruction of Regular Di^ls, as of the Horizontal one of Figure 4, the Divisions of the Equinoctial Line LK, are the Tangents of the Angles of the Quadrant MH, and the dotted Lines are their Secants •, and therefore they may be pricked down by means of a Scale or Sector, in supposing the Radius HB 100 : for then the Tangent H 1 of 15 Deg. will be twenty-seven of the said Parts ; H 2, the Tangent of 30 Deg. will be 58 •, H 3, the Tangent of 45 Deg. (equal to Radius) will be 100 ; H 4, the Tangent of 60 Deg. will be 173 •, and H 5, the Tangent of 75 Deg. will be 373 Parts. The Divisions on the other half of this Line for the Morning Hour-Lines are the fame.

The Divisions for the halves and quarters of Flours may be found likewise upon the Equinoctial Line, by affuming the Tangents of the correfpondent Arcs, which may be taken from printed Tables of natural Tangents, but from the Table of Secants we can deduce some Abreviations. For example, the Line B 4, which is the Secant of 60 Deg. being double to Radius, if twice B H be laid off from B 4, you will have the Point on the Equinoctial Line thro' which the Hour-Line of 4 must be drawn. The said Secant laid off from 4 to L, will give likewise the Point in the Equinoctial Line thro' which the Hour- Line of 5 must be drawn, &V.

The Points thro' which the half Hours must pass, may be found by means of the Secants of the odd Hours. For example, the Secant B 3, laid off at the Point 3 on the Equinoctial Line, will fall on one side upon the Point for half an Hour paft 4, and on the other side, for half an Hour paft 10; the Secant B 9, will give half an Hour paft 7, and half an Hour paft 1 ; B 11, will give half an Hour paft 8, and half an Hour paft 2; Bi, will give half an Hour paft 3, and half an Hour paft 9 •, B 7, will give half an Hour paft 6, and half an Flour paft 12 ; and lastly, B 5 will give half an Hour paft n, and half an Hour paft 5.

The Division of the Equinoctial Line ferves to make the Horizontal and Vertical Dials exactly, but chiefly the undeclining Regular Dials, viz. the Polar East and West ones : for there need nothing be added to the facility of conftructing Equinoctial Dials, because the Angles that the Hour-Lines make at the Center of the Dials are all equal between themfelves.

The Angles that the Hour-Lines of a horizontal Dial make with the Meridian in the Center of the Dial, may be found in the following manner by Trigonometry. As Radius is to the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole, So is the Tangent of the Distance of any Hour- Circle from the Meridian, to the Tangent of the Angle that the Hour- Line of that Hour makes with the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12, on the Horizontal Dial. For example ; Sup- pole the Angle that the Hour-Lines of I and 11, make with the Meridian on a horizontal Dial for the Latitude of 49 Deg. be required : form a Rule of Proportion whose firstTerm let be the Radius 100000; the second, the Sine of 49 Deg. which is 75471 ; and the third, the Tangent of 15 Deg. (viz. the Tangent of the Distance of the Hour-Circles of 11 and 1 from the Meridian) which is 26597. Now having found the fourth Term 20222, feek it in the Tables of Tangents, and you will find 11 Deg. 26 Min. ftand against it: therefore the Angle that the Hour-Lines of 1 or 11 make with the Meridian, is 11 Deg. 26 Min.

Thus may be found the Angles that all the Flour-Lines, and half Hour-Lines, &V. make; with the Meridian in the Center of a horizontal Dial, viz. by as many Rules of Proportion, as there are Hour-Lines and half Hour-Lines, &c. to be drawn, whose two first Terms are ftanding, to wit, the Radius, and the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole ; and so you have but the third Term to feek in the Tables -, that is, the Tangent of the Hour-Circle's distance from the Meridian, in order to find the 4th Term. You may take the Logarithms of those Terms if you have a mind to it&gt; which will fave the trouble of multiplying and dividing.

The aforsaid Analogy may ferve likewise for vertical Dials, if the Sine Complement of the Elevation of the Pole, which is 41 Deg. about Paris, be made use of for the second Term •, because any vertical Dial at Paris may be confidered as an Horizontal one for the Latitude of 41 Deg.

Moreover, the aforsaid Analogy holds for undeclining Inclining-Dials, if the Sine of the Angle made by the Axis and Meridian -Line at the Center of the Dial be used for the second Term of the Analogy. For Example, Because the Dial B on the Dodecahedron of Figure 2, inclines 63 Deg. 26 Min. you mud fubftradt the Elevation of the Pole, which is 49 Deg. from 63 Deg. 26 Min. and then if you make an horizontal Dial for the Latitude of 14 Deg. 26 Mm. in taking 14 Deg. 26 Min. for the second Term of the Analogy, you may calculate the Angles that all the Hour-Lines make with the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12.

A T A B L E of the Angles that the Hour -Lines make with the Meridian

at the Center of an horizontal Dial,

To draw the principal Lines upon a 'vertical Decliner by Trigonometrical Calculation.

This manner of Calculation confifts in the five following Rules.

The Declination of a Plane being given, to find the Angle that the fubftylar Line makes with the Meridian.

Rule I. As Radius is to the Sine of the Plane's Declination, So is the Tangent Comple- ment of the Latitude, to the Tangent of the Angle made by the fubftylar Line and Meridian in the Center of a vertical Decliner. And the Angle that the fubftylar Line makes with the Horizon at the Foot of the right Style, is the Complement of this Angle. Also the Angle that the Equinoctial Line makes with the Horizon at the Point wherein the Hour-Line of 6 cuts it, is equal to the Angle made by the fubftylar Line and Meridian j and the Angle of the Equinoctial Line and Meridian is it's Complement.

Rule II. To find the Angle which the Axis of the Dial makes with the fubftylar Line, which may be called likewise the Height of the Pole above the vertical Plane ; fay,

As Radius is to the Sine Complement of the Latitude, So is the Sine Complement of the Plane's Declination to the Sine of the Angle required. Note, The Angle that the Axis makes with the right Style, is the Complement of this Angle ; and the Angle that the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle makes with the right -Style, is equal to the Angle that the Axis makes with the Subftyle. Also the Angle made by the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle and the Subftyle, is the Complement thereof.

Rule III. To find the Arc of the Equinoctial or Angle between the fubftylar Line and the Meridian in declining Dials ; that is, the Difference between the Meridian of the Place, and the Meridian of the Plane, for the fubftylar Line is the Meridian of the Plane ; fay,

As Radius is to the Sine of the Latitude, So is the Tangent Complement of the Plane's Declination to the Tangent of an Arc, whose Complement will be that required.

Rule IV. To find the Angle that the Hour-Line of 6 makes with the horizontal Line, and the Meridian in the Center of the Dial ; fay,

As Radius is to the Sine of the Plane's Declination, So is the Tangent of the Latitude, to the Tangent of the Angle that the Hour- Line of 6 makes with the Horizon j the Com- plement of which, is that made by the Hour-Line of 6 and the Meridian.

Rule V. To find the Angles that the Hour-Lines make with the fubftylar Line ; and by this means, the Angles that they make with the Meridian in the Center of a vertical Dial.

This Propofition is founded upon this Gnomonick Principle, viz. that any Plane may be parallel to some Horizon, and confequently will be" an horizontal Dial for that Latitude, the fubftylar Line being the Meridian, from which the proper Hour-Lines must be laid off on both Sides.

But before this can be done, the Angle that the Subftyle makes with the Meridian must be found, hy Rule I. the Elevation of the Pole above the Plane, by Rule IT. the Arc of the Equinoctial between the Subftyle and the Meridian, by Rule III. with the Difference or Degrees of the two first Distances from the Style ; one being between the Subftyle and the Meridian, and the other between the Subftyle and the Hour-Line of 6. Thefe being found, fay,

As Radius is to the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole above the Plane, So is the Tangent of the Distance of any Hour-Circle from the Meridian of the Plane or' Subftylar Line to the Tangent of the Angle made by the Hour-Line of the proposed Hour-Circle and the fub- ftylar Line in the Center of the Dial.

Not^ If the fubftylar Line happens to fall upon any half or whole Hour, then the two first Distances of the Hour-Circles from the fubftylar Line will be each 7 Deg. 30 Min. or

15 Deg. and in this Cafe, the Angles of the Hour-Lines of the Hour-Circles, equally distant on both sides the Hour the fubftylar Line falls upon, will be equal on both sides the fubftylar Line.

The Application of the precedent Rules to a vertical Decliner of 45 Deg. South-weflwardly-y in the Latitude of 49 Beg. (Vide Figure 9.)

The Angle made by the fubftylar Line and the Meridian, will be found by the first Rule

31 Deg. 25 Min *

The Angle of the Axis and fubftylar Line, by Rule IL will be 27 Deg. 38 Min. and the Arc of the Equinoctial between the Meridian of the Place and the Meridian of the Plane, by Rule 111. will be found 52 Deg. 58 Min. and confequently the fubftylar Line falls between the Hour- Lines of 3 and 4 in the Afternoon ; and the Angle made by the Hour-Line of 6 and the Meridian, is 50 Deg. 52 Min.

The Arc of the Equinoctial 52 Deg. 58 Min. being found, fubftract 45 Deg. which is the Arc of the Equinoctial anfwering to the Hour of 3, from it, and the Remainder 7 Deg. 58 Min. will be the Arc of the Distance of the Hour of 3 from the Subftyle, and confequent- ly 7 Deg. 2 Min. is the Distance of the Hour of 4 from the Subftyle.

Therefore to find the Angles that the Hour-Lines make with the Subftyle in the Center of the Dial, you mult begin with one of these Distances, in faying, for Example, As Radius 1 00000 is to the Sine of the Elevation of the Pole above the declining Plane, which in this Example is 27 Deg. 38 Min. whose Sine is 46381, So is the Tangent of 7 Deg. 2 Min. which is 12337, to a fourth Number, which shall be found 5722, viz. the Tangent of 3 Deg. 16 Min. and confequently the Angle that the Hour-Line or 4 makes with the Subftyle, is 3 Deg.

16 Min. and to find the Angle that the Hour-Line of 5 makes with the fubftylar Line, you must first add 15 Deg. to 7 Deg. 2 Min. and feek the Tangent of the Sum 22 Deg. 2 Min. and then proceed, as before, and you will find the Angle made by the Hour-Line of 5 with the fubftylar Line will be 10 Deg. 38 Min. the Angle of the Hour-Line of 6 with the fame, will be 19 Deg. 17 Min. the Angle of the Hour-Line of 7, 30 Deg. 44 Min. and the Angle of the Hour-Line of 8 in the Evening, 47 Deg. 25 Min.

But if the Angles that the said Hour-Lines make with the Meridian or Hour-Line of 12 be required, you must add 31 Deg. 35 Min. to each of the aforsaid Angles ; and confequently the Angle that the Hour-Line of 4 makes with the Meridian, will be 34 Deg. 51 Min. the Hour-Line of 5, 42 Deg. 13 Min. the LIour-Line of 6, 50 Deg. 52 Min. the Hour-Line of 7, 61 Deg. 19 Min. and the Hour-Line of 8, 79 Deg. 10 Min.

Having calculated, in the abovefaid manner, the Angles made by the Hour- Lines on the other side the fubftylar Line, with the said fubftylar Line, you will find the Angle of the Hour-Line of 3, 3 Deg. 45 Min. that of the Hour- Line of 2, 11 Deg. 7 Min. that of the Hour-Line of 1 , 19 Deg. 54 Min. that of the Hour-Line of 1 2, 31 Deg. 25 Min. that of the Hour- Line of 11, 48 Deg. 54 Min. that of the Hour-Line of io, 75 Deg. 7 Min. and that of the Hour-Line of 9, 106 Deg. 48 Min.

Now if 31 Deg. ^S Min. viz. the Subftyle's Distance from the Meridian, be taken from each of these last Angles, then the Angle that the Hour-Line of 9 makes with the Meridian, will be 75 Deg. 13 Min. that of the Hour-Line of 10, 43 Deg. 2 1 Min. that of the Hour- Line of 1 1, 17 Deg. 19 Min. and so of others.

When the Declination of a Plane is very great, the Center of a Dial cannot then be pricked down conveniently thereon, since the Hour-Lines will fall too near each other. And in this Cafe they may be drawn between two horizontal Lines ; for the Angles that the Hour-Lines make with the said horizontal Lines, are the Complements of the Angles that the refpective Hour-Lines make with the Meridian.

How to find the Declination of an upright or vertical Wall or Plane, by means of the Shadow

of the Extremity of an Iron Rod or Style.

Because the Exactnefs of Vertical Dials chiefly depend on the Knowledge of the Situa- tions of the Walls on which they are to be made or i'et up against, with refpct to the Hea- vens, that is, their Declinations : therefore it is very neceflary that their Declinations be found with all poflible Exactnefs, which we shall endeavour to do before we clofe this Chapter.

Preparations.

You must first fix an Iron Rod or Wire in the Wall obliquely, having it's Extremity (harp and pretty distant from the Wall, as the Rod A I, whose Extremity I is fharp. Vide Fig. 9.

Secondly, The Foot H of the Style must be pricked down upon the Dial Plane. This Point is that wherein the Perpendicular FI I drawn from the Extremity of the Rod or Style meets the Plane of the Dial. You must likewise draw the vertical Line H F pafling th.ro' that Point, which reprefents the perpendicular Vertical to the Plane of the Dial, and also the horizontal Line DC cutting the said vertical Line at right Angles, in the Foot of the

Style H. This being done, measure eXaclly the Length of the right Style HI orHF, its equal, that is, measure the Distance from the Foot of the Style to its Extremity, with fome Scale divided into small Parts. Then having observed where the Extremity Of the Shadow of the Iron Rod falls upon the Wall at different Times in the fame Day, as at the Points 2, 3, 4 ■■&gt; you muff measure the Distance of eacli Extremity of the Shadow from the hori- zontal Line with the Scale: as, for example, the Distance from the Point 2 to the Point Z in the horizontal Line •, as likewise the Distance from the fame Point to the Vertical Line passing thro' the Foot of the Style ; as from the Point 2 to the Point X ; and then you must let down the Numbers found orderly in a Memorial, that so they may be made use of in the following Analogies.

But to prick down upon the Wall nicely the Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod or Style, you must use the following Method, which I had from M. de la Hire. Fatten a little Tin-Plate, having a round hole therein, near the Extremity of the Rod, in such manner, that the Extremity of the Iron Rod be exactly in the Center of the faicl round hole, and the Plate expofed directly to the Sun ; then you will fee a little Oval of Light upon the Wall in the Shadow of the Plate: and if you draw quickly with a Pencil, a light Track upon the' Wall about the laid Oval of Light, which is moving continually ; the Center of the said Oval may be taken lor the true Shadow of the Extremity of the Rod.

Having thus marked the Points 2, 3, 4, whereat the Extremity of the Shadow falls, you must find the Amplitude, and the Sun's Altitude anfwering to each of them, and fet them down in the Memorial.

Note, The Amplitude that we mean here, is the Angle that the height of the Style or Rod makes with the Line drawn from each of the observed Extremities of the Shadow to the horizontal Line (for each of these Lines reprefents upon the Wall the vertical Circle the Sun is in at the Time of Obfervation). This Angle is marked H F Z in the Figure, and is the Amplitude correfpondent to the Point 2. Now to find this Angle, you must fay, As the Height of the Rod or Style is to the Distance from the Extremity of the Shadow to the vertical Line, So is Radius to the Tangent of the Amplitude* And by making this Analogy for each Extremity of the Shadow of the Rod observed at different Times, the correfpondent Amplitudes will be had, and must be fet down in one Column in the Memorial.

Then to find the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon, you must take the Complement of the Amplitude, and the Distance of each observed Extremity of the Shadow from the hori- zontal Line. This being done, fay, As the Height of the Style is to the Sine Complement of the Amplitude, So is the Distance of the Extremity of the Shadow from the horizontal Line, to the Tangent of the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon, which being found for the Times of each Obfervation of the Shadow of the Iron Rod, fet them down orderly in one Column.

Note, If the Extremity of the Shadow observed falls upon the vertical Line passing thro* the Foot of the Style, there will then be no Amplitude ; and in this Cafe you will have the Sun's Altitude by one. Rule only, in faying, As the Height of the Style is to the Distance of the Extremity of the Shadow from the Foot of the Style, So is Radius to the Tangent of the Sun's Altitude.

After this, you must find the Distance of each observed vertical or azimuth Line from the Meridian ; and in order to do this, the Sun's Declination must be had for the Times wherein the Extremities of the Shadow were taken : if it be at the time of the Solftices, the lame Declination will ferve for all the Extremities of the Shadow observed in one Day ; but it the Sun be in the Equinoctial, you must have his Declination for each time of the Obfer- vation of the Extremity of the Shadow, in taking the Parts proportional.

Now the Sun's Declination being had, you must take the Complement thereof, as like- wife the Complement of his Altitude, and the Complement of the Latitude, and add them all three together ; and take half the Sum, and from this half Sum take the Complement of the Sun's Altitude, and the Remainder will be a first Difference : and moreover, if the Com- plement of the Latitude be taken from the said half Sum, you will have a second Dif- ference. This being done, fay, As the Sine Complement of the Latitude is to the Sine of the first Difference, so is the Sine of the second Difference to a fourth Sine : and as the Sine Complement of the Sun's Altitude is to Radius, so is that fourth Sine found to another Sine; which being multiplied by Radius, and the Square Root of the Product, will be half the Distance of the Extremity of the Shadow observed, or of its vertical Line from the Me- ridian or Hour-Line of 12.

This Distance being found in Degrees and Minutes, we may have the Declination of any Wall, which here is the Angle H F E, by some one of the five following Cafes.

First, If the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style is between the vertical Line pafilng thro* the Foot of the Style, and the Hour- Line of 12, as is the Point 2 in this Example, which was observed some time in the Afternoon •, then you must add the Amplitude to the Distance of the vertical Line from the Meridian.

Secondly* If the Extremity of the Shadow falls beyond the vertical Line parting thro' the Foot of the Style, as here the Point 3 does, you must fubftract the Amplitude from the Di- stance of the vertical Line from the Meridian, to have the Declination of the Wall.

Thirdly, If the observed Extremity of the Shadow be found exactly upon the vertical Line patting thro' the Foot of the Style, then there will be no Amplitude, and its Distance from the Meridian will be the Wall's Declination.

Fourthly, If the Extremity of the Shadow is on this side of the Meridian, as here the Point 4 is, which was observed before Noon, the Amplitude will be greater than the Decli- nation •, to have which, you must fubftraet from the Amplitude the Distance of the Vertical Line from the Meridian.

Fifthly, If the Extremity of the Shadow was observed precifely at Noon, the Wall's Declination would be equal to the Amplitude •, and since the Snn's Declination, and the Latitude is known, it will be eafy to know whether the Altitude observed any Day be the greateft for that Day, that is, whether it be the Sun's Meridian Altitude. Note, What we have said is eafily applicable to all Declinations, whether East wards or West wards, if the Line of Midnight be used inftead of that of Noon, when Walls decline North-East or North-West.

An Example will make all this manifest : in order to which, let us suppose, that, in a Place where the North-Pole is elevated, or, which is all one, where the Latitude of the Place is 48 Deg. 50 Min. we have observed the Extremity of the Shadow of an Iron-Rod Upon a very upright Wall about the time of the Summer Solftice, whose Distance from the vertical Line passing thro' the Foot of the Style is 100 equal Parts of some Scale, and the Height of the Style 300 of the fame Parts.

'The Operation by Logarithms.

The Logarithm of 100 — — — — 20000000

The Logarithm of Radius — — — — 1 00000000

The Sum — — — — — 120000000

The Logarithm of 300 — — — — 24771212

The Remainder — — — — 95228788

This Number remaining is the Logarithm Tangent of 18 Deg. 26 Min. for the Amplitude of the observed Extremity of the Shadow, and the Complement thereof, is 71 Deg. 34 Min.

Then to find the Sun's Altitude, suppose the Distance from the Extremity of the Shadow observed to the horizontal Line be 600 of the aforsaid equal Parts.

The Logarithm Sine of 71 Deg. 34 Min. — — — 99771253

The Logarithm of 600 — — — — 27781512

The Sum — — — — I2 755 2 7^5

The Logarithm of 300 — — — • — 24771212

The Remainder — — — — 102 78 1553

This remaining Number is the the Logarithm Tangent of 62 Deg. 13 Min. the Sun's Altitude.

Deg. Min.
Then suppose the Complement of the Latitude is — — — 41 10

The Complement of the Declination of the Sun — — 66 45

The Complement of the Height of the Sun ■ — — — - 27 45

The Sum — —

Half of the Sum — —

The Complement of the Latitude —

The flrft Difference — —

Again, taking from — — —

The Complement of the Sun's Altitude — ■

We fh all have the second Difference — — 40 4

The firfi Analogy.
The Logarithm Sine of the firfb Difference 26 Deg. 41 Min. — — 96523035
The Logarithm Sine of the second Difference 40 Deg. 4 Min. — — 98086690

The Sum — - — — - — — 194609725

The Logarithm-Sine of 41 Deg. ip Min'. fubftracl: — — 9 l88 39 x 9

The fourth Sine remaining — ■— — 96425806

This last Number is the Logarithm Sine Of 76 Deg. 4 Min. which being doubled, makes 152 Deg. 8 Min. but since this Angle is obtuse, you must fubftract it from 180 Deg. and the Remainder 27 Deg. 52 Min. is the Distance of the observed vertical Circle or Line from the Meridian : and because the Extremity of the Shadow 2, for which the Calculation is supposed to be made, is between the vertical Line palling thro' the Foot of the Style, and the Hour- Line of 12 ; you must add the aforsaid 27 Deg. 52 Min. to the calculated Amplitude 18 Deg. 26 Min. to have the Declination 46 Deg. 18 Min.

The Declination of a Wall may be found by one Obfervation of the Extremity of the Shadow of a Style or Iron-Rod only •, but it is better to make several Obfervations thereof in one Day, or in different Days, that so the Declination of the Wall may be calculated for each Obfrrvation, and the proportional Parts of the Differences arifing may be taken : if, for Example, the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style hath been fix times observed, you must take the one-fixth Part of the Differences produced by the Calculations, in order to have the true Declination of the Wall.

Of the ConfiruBiion and Uses of the Declinatory^

THIS Instrument is made of a very even Plate of Brass or dry Wood, in figure of a Fig. 16, Rectangle, about one Foot in Length, and seven or eight Inches in Breadth. We draw the Diameter of a Semi-Circle upon it parallel to one of the longeft Sides of this Plate, viz. parallel to A B, and we divide this Semi-Circle into two Quadrants* containing 90 Degrees each, which we divide fometimes into half Degrees, the Degrees being both ways numbered from the Point H, as may be feen in the Figure of the Instrument. When this is done, we add an Index I to the said Plate, which turns about the Center G, by means of a turned headed Rivet. On the fiducial Line of this Index we fcrew a Compass, with the North-Side towards the Center G, and likewise fometimes a small horizontal Dial, whose Hour-Line of 12 turns to the Center G. I shall fay no more as to the Conftruction of this Instrument, it being eafy to underftand, from what has been said elsewhere in this Treatife.

The Use of this Instrument in taking the Declinations of Planes.

A Plane is said to decline, when it does not face directly one of the Cardinal Parts of the World, which are North, South, East, and West •, and the Declination thereof is mea- fured by an Arc of the Horizon comprehended between the Prime Vertical, and the vertical Circle parallel to the said Plane, if it be vertical, viz. perpendicular to the Horizon ; for if a Plane be inclined, it can be parallel to no vertical Circle. And in this Cafe, the Arc of the Horizon comprehended between the Prime Vertical, and that vertical Circle that is parallel to the Base of the inclined Plane, or else the Arc of the Horizon computed between the Meridian of the Place, and the vertical Circle perpendicular to the Plane, is the Plane's Declination.

There are no Planes, unlefs vertical or inclined ones, that can decline ; for a horizontal Plane cannot be said to decline, because the upper Surface thereof directly faces the Zenith, and it's Plane turns towards all the four Cardinal Parts of the World indifferently.

Now, in order to find the Declination of a Plane, whether vertical or inclined, you must draw first a level Line thereon, that is, a Line parallel to the Horizon, and lay the Side A B of the Instrument along this Line : then you must turn the Index and Compass 'till the Needle fixes itfelf directly over the Line of the Declinatior or Variation thereof on the Bottom of the Box. This being done, the Degrees of the Semi Circle cur by the fiducial Line of the

Index gives the Plane's Declination towards that Coaft fhewn by the writing graved upon the Instrument. If, for example, the Index be found fixed upon the 45th Degree, between II and Bj and the end of the Needle reflecting the North be directly over the Point S of its Line of Declination ; in this Cafe, the Plane declines 45 Deg. South- weft ward I y : but if in the fame Situation of the Declinatory, the opposite end or the Needle, reflecting the South, fhould have fixed itfelf over the Point S of the laid Line of Declination, then the Plane would have declined 45 Deg. North-eaftwardly.

.Again, If the Index be round between A and H, and the North-end of the Needle over the Point S of its Line of Declination, then the Declination or the Plane will be South- eaftwardly ; but if in this Situation of the Index, the South-end of the Needle fixes itfelf over the laid Point S, then the Plane will decline North-weftwardly.

If the Sun fhines upon the Wall or Plane whose Declination is fought, and the time of the Day be known exactly by some good Dial, as the Aftronomic Ring Dial, we may find the Declination of the Wall or Plane by means of a small horizontal Dial fattened on the Index, which must be turned 'till the Style of the Dial mews the exact Time of the Day ; and then the Degrees of one of the Quadrants cut by the Fiducial Line of the Index, will be the Wall or Plane's Declination : and by this means may be avoided the Errors caused by the Compass, as well on account of the Variation of the Needle, as becaule of Iron concealed near the Compass.

When the Sun fhines upon a Wall, we may find likewise the Subftyle or proper Meridian by means of obferving two Extremities of the Shadow of an Iron-Rod, in the manner we have above mentioned, and afterwards the Declination ; or else we may draw a meridian Line upon an horizontal Plane near the Wall, which being produced to the Wall, will be a means to find the Declination thereof, as also to find the Variation of the Needle. Now the manner of drawing a Meridian Line is thus : 5.M. Draw a Circle upon some level Plane, (suppose this to be reprefented by the Figure M)

and in the Center thereof fet up a fharp Style very upright, or else fix a crooked Style in fome Place, as A, in such manner, that a Line drawn from its fharp end to the Center of the said Circle be perpendicular to the Plane of the Circle ; which you may do by a Square. But before you draw the Circle, it is neceffary to know the Length of the Shadow of the Style, that so the Circumference of the Circle may be drawn thro' the Extremity of the Shadow of the Style oblerved some time before Noon. Now the Circle being drawn, fup- pofe the Extremity of the Shadow touches the Circumference of the Circle in the Morning at the Point G, and about as many Hours after Noon as when in the Morning you observed the Extremity of the said Shadow in G before Noon, you find the Extremity of the Shadow again to touch the Circumference of the Circle in F ; then if the Arc F G be biftcted in the Point C, and the Diameter B C be drawn, this Diameter will be a meridian Line.

If you have a mind to find a meridian Line when the Sun is in the equinoctial Line, there is no need of drawing a Circle, for all the Extremities of the Shadow of the Style will then be in a right Line, as ED, which is the common Section of the Equinoctial and the horizontal Plane ; and so any right Line, as B C, cutting E D at right Angles, will be a meridian Line.

Thus having drawn a meridian Line, if the Hour-Line of 1 2 of a horizontal Dial be placed so as to coincide therewith, we may have, the Time ol the Day thereby : and there- lore if at the fame time the Index of the Declinatory be turned fo, that the small horizontal Dial faftened thereon fhews the fame Hour or Part, then the Degrees of the Circumference of the Instrument cut by the Index, will fhew the Declination of the Wall or Plane. Or else you may produce the abovefaid meridian Line 'till it cuts the declining Plane, for then it will make two unequal Angles with the horizontal Line drawn upon the Plane, viz. an acute and obtuse Angle, which being measured with all the Exactnefs poffible, the Difference between either of these Angles and a right Angle, will be the Declination of the Plane. For Example, if the acute Angle be 50 Deg. and confequently the obtuse one 130 Deg. then the Difference between either of them and a right Angle, will be 40 Deg. for the Declination of the Plane.

If you have a mind to find the Variation of the Needle, apply one of the Sides of the square Box of the Compass along the meridian Line drawn on the Plane ; and when the ^Needle is at Rest, obferve how many Degrees the North Point thereof is distant from the Flower-de-luce of the Card -, and these Degrees will be the Needle's Declination or Variation ; but this Variation will not last long, for it changes continually. Note, When the Declina- tions of Planes be taken with a Compass, you must have regard to the Variation of the Needle, in letting it Rest over a Line fhewing the Variation, which is drawn commonly on the Bottom of the Compass-Box.

The Use of the Declinatory in taking the Inclinations of Planes.

This Instrument ferves to take the Inclinations of Planes, as well as their Declinations, that is, the Angles the Planes make with the Horizon, and for this end there is a little Hole in the Center G, having a Plumb-Line faftened therein.

The 17th Figure mews the manner of taking the Declinations aud Inclinations of Planes. The Plane A, of this Figure, whereon the Declinatory is applied, is a vertical Meridional undeclining Plane. The Plane B declines South North-weftwardly 44 Degres. The Plane C, is a direct West one. The Plane D, declines 45 Degrees North-weftwardly. And the other Declinations are taken in the fame manner, in applying the Side A B of the Declina- tory to them, so that the Plane of the Semi-circle be parallel to the Horizon.

Now to measure the Angle of a Plane's Inclination, you must apply some one of the other Sides of the Instrument to the Plane or Wall, and keeping the Plane of the Semi-circle per- pendicular to the Horizon, fee what Number of Degrees of the Circumference thereof the Plumb-Line plays upon, for these will be the quantity of the said Angle of Incli- nation.

If, for example, the Side CD be applied to the Plane E, and the Plumb-Line plays upon the Line G H, then the said Plane will be parallel to the Horizon. But if the Side CAof the Instrument being applied on the Plane F, and the Plumb Line plays, as per Fi- gure, this Plane inclines 45 Degrees upwards. Again, If the Instrument being applied to the Plane G, and the Plumb-Line plays upon the Diameter, then this Plane is vertical. And lastly, If the Side AC, being applied on the Plane H, and the Plumb-Line plays as per Fi- gure, then the Inclination thereof will be 45 Deg* downwards.

CHAP. III.

Of the ConjlruSlion and Uses of Instruments, for drawing upon Dials the Arcs of the Signs, the Diurnal Arcs, the Babylonick and Italian Hours, the Almacanters, and the Meridians of principal Cities,

WE now proceed to defcribe upon Dials certain Lines which the Shadow of the Ex- tremity of the Style pafTes over, when the Sun enters into each of the 12 Signs of the Zodiack.

Of the Trigon of Signs i

The first Figure reprefents the Triangle or Trigon of Signs, made of Brass or any other "Plats 23. solid Matter of a bigness at pleafure. The Conftruction of this is thus: First draw the Fig. 1. Line a b, reprefenting the Axis of the World, and ac perpendicular thereto, reprefen' ng the Radius of the Equinoctial, and about the Point a defcribe the circular Arc dc e at plea- fure. This being done, reckon 23 4 Deg. both ways from the Point c upon the said Arc, for the Sun's greateft Declination, and draw the two Lines, a d, a e, for the Summer and Winter Tropicks ; likewise draw the Line d e, which will be bifected by the Radius of the Equinoctial in the Point 0, about which, as a Center, draw a Circle, whose Circumference paries thro' the Points d and e of the Tropicks, and divide the Circumference thereof in 12 equal Parts, beginning from the Point d. Then thro' each Point ofDivision equally distant from d and e, draw occult Lines parallel to the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle. Thefe Lines will interfect the Arc dc in the Points thro' which and the Center a Lines being drawn, these Lines will reprefent the beginnings of the Signs of the Zodiack, at 30 Deg. distance from each other,

But to divide the Signs into every 10th or 5th Degree, you must divide the Circumference of the Circle into 36 or 72 equal Parts. After this, we denote the Characters of the Signs upon each Line, as appears /w Figure. And when the Trigon is divided into every 10th or 5th Degree, we place the Letter of the Month to the first io Degrees of each Sign agreeing therewith.

But the Trigon of Signs may be readier made by the means of a Table of the Sun's Decli- nation j for having drawn the two Lines ab and a c at right Angles, lay the Center of a Protractor on the Point a, with its Limb towards the Point C\ and keeping it fixed thus, count 23 ~ Deg. on both sides the Radius a c, for the Tropicks of 25 and Vf, 20 Deg. 12 Min. for the beginnings of the Signs si, n, t and ,sr, and 11 Deg. 30 Min for «, m m. and X. And in this manner we divide the Spaces for each Sign into every 10th or 5th Deg. by means of the following Table of the Sun's Declination. Note, The Equinoctial Points of r and *± are placed at the end of the Radius of the Equinoctial a c.

By this Table we may know the Sun's Declination and Distance from the Equinoctial Points each Day at Noon, in every Degree of the Signs of the Zodiack, the greateft Decli- nation being 23 Deg. 3oMin. tho' at prefent it is but about 23 Deg. 29 Min. but a Minute difference is of no confequence in the Use of Dials. The Degrees of the firfl Column to the Left-hand, are for the Signs kt down upon the Top of the Table, and the Degrees in the lait Column numbered upwards, are for the Signs fet at the Bottom of the Table.

Of the Trigon of Diurnal Arcs.

'The second Figure reprefents the Trigon of Diurnal and Noclumal Arcs. Thefe are drawn upon Sun-Dials by Curve-Lines, like the Arcs of the Signs, and by means of them the Shadow of the Style fhews how many Hours the Sun is above the Horizon, in any given Day, that is, the Length of the Day, and confequently the Length of the Night too -, for this is the Com- plement of that to 24 Hours.

The Trigon of Signs is the fame for all Latitudes, since the Sun's Declination is the fame ior all the Earth : but the Diurnal Arcs are different for every particular Latitude, and we draw as many of these Arcs upon a Dial, as there are Hours of Difference between the longeft and fhorteft Days of the Year.

Now to conftrutt the Trigon of Diurnal Arcs upon Brass or any other solid Matter, first draw the right Line R Z for the Radius of the Hour-Line of 12, or of the Equinoctial ; and about the Point R, with any Opening of your Compassts taken at pleafure, dcfcribe the circular

Chap. 3. of Sun-F)ials. 231

circular Arc T SV, and lay off both ways thereon from the Point S, two Arcs, each equal to the Complement of the Latitude. For Example, if the Latitude be 49 Deg. make the Arcs S V, and ST, of 41 Deg. each. This being done, draw the right Line T X V, and about the Point X, as a Center, defcribe the Circumference of a Circle TZVY, which divide into 48 equal Parts by dotted Lines, drawn parallel to the Radius of the Equinoctial R Z: then these Lines will cut the Diameter T X V in Points, thro' which and the Point R, you may draw the Radius's of the Hours. And since the Jongeft Day at Paris is 16 Hours, and the fhorteft 8, you need but draw four Radius's on one Side the Line R Z, arfd a like Number on the other Side.

Moreover, the Angles that all the Radius's make at the Point R may be found Trigono- metrically, by the following Analogy, viz. As Radius is to the Tangent Complement of the Latitude, So is the Tangent of the Difference between the Semidiurnal Arc at the time of the Equinox and the Arc proposed, to the Tangent of the Sun's requifite Declination. For Example; Suppose it be required to draw upon the Trigon the diurnal Arc of 11 or 13 Hours, the Semidiurnal Arc is 5 t Hours, or 6 l Hours, and the Day of the Equinox the diurnal Arc is 12 Hours ; and confequently the Semidiurnal Arc is 6 Hours, and the Difference is half an Hour : therefore Radius must be put for the first Term of the Analogy, the Tan- gent of 41 Deg. (viz. the Complement of the Latitude of Paris) for the second Term, and the Sine of 7 Deg. 30 Min. for the third Term. Now the fourth Term being found, the Sun's Declination is 6 Deg. 28 Min. South, when the Day at Paris is 11 Hours long •, and 6 Deg. 28 Min. North, when the Day is 13 Hours •, and making three other Analogies, you will find that the Declination of the diurnal Arc of 10 Hours and 14 Hours, is 12 Deg. 41 Min. of 9 Hours and 15 Hours, 18 Deg. 25 Min. and of 8 Hours and 16 Hours, 23 Deg. 30 Min.

Of the 'Trigon with an Index.

The third Figure reprefents the Trigon of Signs put upon a Rule or Index A, in order Fig. 3. to draw the Arcs of the Signs upon great Dials. The diurnal Arcs may be drawn likewise upon this Trigon •, but the Arcs of the Signs and diurnal Arcs too must not be drawn upon one and the fame Dial, for avoiding Confufion. In. the Center of the Index there is a little Hole thro' which is put a Pin, that so the Instrument may turn about the Center of a Dial. The Trigon (Tides along the Index, and may be fixed in any part thereof by means of the Screw B. The Arcs of the Signs with their Characters are round about the Circumference, and there is a fine Thread fixed in the Center thereof, in order to extend over the Radii quite to the Hour-Lines of a Dial, as we shall by and by explain.

The fourth Figure reprefents one half of a horizontal Dial, having the Morning Hour- R S-4« Lines to 12 o'Clock thereon, and the Equinoctial Line CD. This being enough of the Dial, for explaining the Manner of drawing the Arcs of the Signs thereon, by means of Fi- gure 5, which reprefents a Trigon of Signs drawn upon a Plate, on which the Hour-Lines of an horizontal Dial are adjufted in the following manner

Take the Length of the Axis V R of the horizontal Dial between your Compasses, and lay it off on the Axis of the Trigon from O to C •, after this, take the Distance from the Center V of the Dial to the Point C, wherein the Equinoctial Line cuts the Hour-Line of 12, and lay it off on the Trigon from C to a, and draw lightly the Line c a 12, cutting all the seven Lines of the Trigon. This being done, take upon this Line the Distance from the Point c to the Interferon of the Summer Tropick, and lay it off from the Center V of the Dial on the Hour-Line of 12, and you will have one Point thro' which the Summer Tropick must pass ; likewise take the Distance from the Point c to the Interferon of the Parallel of if, and lay it off on the Flour-Line of 12, from the Center of the Dial, and you will have a Point on the said Hour-Line thro' which the Parallel of u must pass •, likewise affume all the other Diftancc-s on the Trigon, and lay them off fuccemvely on the Hour-Line of 12 of the Dial, from the Center to the Point thro' which the Winter Tropick passes, which must be the most distant from the Center of the Dial, and you will have the Points in the Hour-Line of 12 thro' which each of the Parallels of the Signs must pass. And by proceeding in this manner with the other Hour-Lines, you will have Points in them thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass. For Example, Affume on the Hour-Line of 1 1 of the Dial, the Distance from the Cen- ter thereof to the Point wherein the Equinoctial Line cuts it, and lay this Distance off upon the Trigon from c towards a, and draw the right Line C 1 1 ; then take the Distances from the Point c to the Interferon of each of the Parallels of the Signs, and lay them off from the Center of the Dial, on the Hour-Line of 11, to the Points 2 2, t£c. and those will be Points in the Hour-Line of 11, thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass. Underftand the fame for others.

But because the Hour-Line of 6 is parallel to the Equinoctial Line, make this likewise parallel to the Radius of the Equinoctial a on the Trigon : and to prick down the Line for the Hour of Seven in the Evening, defcribe an Arc about the Point C, as a Center, from the Line for the Hour of 6 to that for the Hour of 5 •, and lay off that Arc on the other Side of the Line for the Hour of 6, and then you may draw the Hour-Line of 7, which will not meet the Summer Tropick. Finally, The Line for the Hour of 8 must make the fame Angle with the Line of the Hour of 6, as the Line for the Hour of .4 does ;

but it is ufelefs to draw this Line for the Latitude of 49 Deg. bccaufe this Line being paral- lel to the Tropick of as, cannot cut any one Radius to the Signs. Now the Points thro' which the Arcs of the Signs muftpass, being found on the flour-Lines of the Dial, you muffc join all those that appertain to the fame Sign with an even hand ; andycu will have the curved Arcs of the Signs, whose Characters must be marked upon the Dial, as per Figure. Note We fometimes fet down the Names ol the Months, and of some remarkable moveable Feafts upon the Dial. The Arcs of the Signs are drawn upon vertical Dials in this manner ; but here the Winter Tropick must be nigheft to the Center of the Dial, and the Summer Tropick furtheft distant from it.

If the Arcs of the Signs or diurnal Arcs are to be drawn upon a great Dial, the third Fi-gure must be used in the following manner :

turned and fixed upon any Hour-Line, as may be feen in Figure 6 : then having fixed the Center of the Trigon upon the Index, at a Distance from • the Center of the Index equal to the Distance from the Center of the Dial to the Extremity of the Axis there- of, by means of the Screw R ; take the Thread on one Hand, and with the other raife or lower the Instrument upon the Plane of the Dial, so that the Thread extended along the Radius of the Equinoctial of the Trigon, meets the Point wherein some Hour-Line cuts the Equinoctial Line of the Dial, and in this Situation fix the Index. This being done, extend the Thread along the Radius's of the Trigon, and prick down the Points upon each Hour-Line of the Dial, thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass, both above and below the Equinoctial Line, as we have done on the Hour- Line of 12 of the Dial reprefent- cd in Figure 6. And if you do thus on all the Hour-Lines fucceffively one after the other, and the Points marked thereon appertaining to the fame Sign, be joined by an even Hand, you will have the Parallels of the Signs upon the Surface of the Dial. But to make the Points on the Hour-Line of 6, the Instrument must be turned so that the Fiducial Line of the Index be upon the Hour-Line of 12, and the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle of the Trigon parallel to the Hour-Line of 6. The Instrument being thus fixed, extend the Thread along the Radius's of the Signs, until it cuts the Hour-Line of 6, and the Points where it cuts the said Hour- Line, will be those thro' which the Parallels of the Signs must pass in that Hour-Line.

When the Arcs of the Signs are drawn on one side of the Dial, for example, on the Morning Hour-Lines, you may lay off the fame Distances from the Center on the Hour-Lines of the ether side the Meridian ; as the Points denoted on the Hour-Line of 1 1 must be laid off on the Hour-Line of 1, those on the Hour-Line of 10 on the Hour- Line of 2 ', and fo draw the Arcs of the Signs on the other side of the Meridian. Note, The Arcs of the Signs are drawn upon declining Dials in the fame manner, if the Subftylar Line be made ufeof in- ftead of the Meridian, and the Distances from the Center be taken equal upon those Hour- Lines equally distant on both sides of the Subftyle from it.

If the diurnal Arcs are to be pricked down upon a Dial inftead of the Arcs of the Signs, that is, the Length of the Days, we may likewise put thereon the Hour of the Sun's rifing and fetting, if the Length of the Day be divided into two equal Parts. For example, when the Day is 15 Hours long, the Sun fets half an Hour pafb 7 in the Afternoon, and rifes half an Hour paft 4 in the Morning ; and so of others.

If the Arcs of the Signs are to be drawn upon Equinoctial Dials, as on that of Figure 7, Plate 22, take the length of the Axis of the Style AD, and lay it off upon the Axis of the Trigon (of Figure 5. Plate 23.) from O to P, and draw the Line PN parallel to the Ra- dius of the Equinoctial ; this* shall cut "the Summer Tropick and two x other Parallels : then take the Distance from the Point P to the Inter feet ion.of the Tropick of as ; and with that Distance about the Center A of the Dial draw a Circle^ which shall reprefent the Tropkrk of 2?. Take likewise the two other Distances on the Parallel of the Trigon, and draw two other Circles about the Center of the Dial, the one for the Parallel of u and Si, and the other fipr that of « and "3?, which may be drawn upon an upper Equinoctial Dial. But if this was an under Equinoctial Dial, then the above defcribed Circles would reprefent the Parallels of n\, f, v$, .^ and x : but as for the Parallels of &lt;r and ^, they cannot be drawn upon Equinoctial Dials, because when the Sun is in the Plane of the Celeftial Equator, his Rays fall parallel to the Surfaces of Equinoctial Dials, and the Shadows of their Styles are indefinitely protended.

The Horizontal Line is thus drawn : First lay off the Style's length on the Hour-Line of 6, and about the Extremity D thereof, defcribe the Arc E F (upwards for an upper Dial) equal to the Latitude, viz. 49 Deg. for Paris, and draw the Line D F, which shall cut the Meridian in the Point H, thro' which the horizontal Line must be drawn parallel to the Hour-Line of 6, as may be feen in Figure 7, Plate zi.

The Use of this Line is to fhew the rifing and fetting of the Sun at his entrance into the beginning of each Sign. For example, because it cus the Tropick of Cancer on the Dial, in Points thro'' which the Hour-Line of 4 in the Morning, and 8 in the Evening pass •, therefore the Sun rifes the Day of the Solftice at 4 in the Morning, and fets at 8 in the

Evening at Paris. Underftand the fame of others.

Chap, 3. of Sun-Dials. 233

To draw the Arcs of the Signs upon Polar Dials.

The Dial being drawn (as appears in Fig. 6. Plate 22.), the dotted Radii of the Hours continued out 'till they meet the Equinoctial Line mud be laid off fucceflively upon the Ra- dius of the Equinoctial of the Trigon of Signs (Fig. 5. Plate 23.) for drawing as many Per- pendiculars thereon as there are dotted Radii, viz. one for the Hour of 12, and the five others for the Hours of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, which mail cut the Radii of the Signs of the Trigon. This being done, take the Distances from the Radius of the Equinoctial of the Trigon upon the said Perpendiculars, to the Radius's of the other Signs, and lay them off upon the Hour-Lines of the Dial on both sides the Equinoctial Line A B. For Example ; Take the Distance 12 b, and lay it off on the Dial from the Point C upon the Hour-Line of 12, and you will have two Points in the said Line thro' which the Tropicks muff pass. Likewise take the Space on the Trigon upon the Line 5 kf or sf, and lay it off upon the Hour-Lines of 5 and 7 on both sides the Equinoctial Line of your Dial, and you will have Points in the Hour-Lines of 5 and 7, thro' which the Tropicks must pass. And in this manner may Points be found in the other Hour-Lines thro' which the said Tropicks muff pass ; as also the Points in the Hour-Lines thro' which the Parallels of the other Signs must be drawn, which being found must be joined. Note, We have only drawn the two Tropicks in the Figure of this Dial for avoiding Confufion. And the Parallels of the Northern Signs must be drawn underneath the Equinoctial Line, and the Southern Signs above it. Also the diurnal Arcs are drawn in the fame manner as the Arcs of the Signs are.

How to draw the Arcs of the Signs upon East and West Dials.

The Arcs of the Signs are drawn nearly in the fame manner upon East and West Dials as upon Polar ones : for Example, Let it be required to draw the Arcs of the Signs upon the Welt Dial of Figure 8. Plate 22. the dotted Radii of the Flours produced to the Equinoctial Line C D, must be laid off upon the Trigon of Figure 1. (Plate 23.) from the Point a upon the Radius of the Equinoctial, that so Perpendiculars may be drawn upon the Trigon cut- ting the Radius's of the Signs ; after this, you must take upon the said Perpendiculars the Distances from the Radius of the Equinoctial to the Interfection of the Radii of the other Signs, and lay them off upon the Hour-Lines of the Dial, on both sides the Equinoctial Line. For Example, Take the Space 6 &gt;tf, or 2?, and lay it off on both sides the Point D upon the Hour-Line of 6 on the Dial : Proceed in this manner for finding Points in the other Hour- Lines thro' which the Curve Parallels of the Signs must be drawn with an even Hand, fo that the Northern ones be under the Equinoctial Line, and the Southern ones above it. Note, The diurnal Arcs are drawn in the fame manner ; and we have only drawn the two Tropicks thereon for avoiding Confufion.

The Construction of a horizontal Dial, having the Italian and Babylonian Hours j as also the Almacanters and Meridians defcribed upon it.

Having already fhewed the manner of pricking down the Aftronomical Hours upon Sun- Dials, as also the Diurnal Arcs, and Arcs of the Signs, there may yet be several other Circles of the Sphere reprefented upon Dials, being pleafant and useful, which the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style passes over ; as the Italian and Babylonian Hours, the Azimuths, the Almacanters, and the Meridians of principal Cities.

The first Line of the Italian and Babylonian Hours is the Horizon, like as the first Line of the Aftronomical Hours is the Meridian ; for the Italians begin to reckon their Hours when the Center of the Sun touches the Horizon at his fetting, and the Babylonians when he touches the Horizon at his rifing.

A general Method for drawing the Italian and Babylonian Hours upon all kinds of Dials.

The Aftronomical Hour-Lines, and the Equinoctial Line being drawn, as also a diurnal Fig. 7. Arc or Parallel of the Sun's rifing for any Hour, at pleafure, as, for the Hour of 4 at Paris, which Arc will be the. fame as the Summer Tropick, you may find two Points (as we shall iliew here) in each of the aforsaid Lines, viz. one in the Equinoctial Line, and the other in the diurnal Arc drawn, by means of which it will not be difficult to prick down the Italian and Babylonian Hour-Lines •, because they being the common Sections of great Circles of the Sphere and a Dial- Plane, will be reprefented in right Lines thereon.

Now suppose it be required to draw the first Babylonian Hour-Line upon the horizontal Dial of Figure 7, first confider that when the Sun is in the Equinoctial he rifes at 6, and at 7 he has been up juft an Flour ; whence it follows, that the first Babylonian Hour-Line must pass thro' the Point wherein the Aftronomical Hour-Line of 7 cuts the Equinoctial Line ; the second thro' the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 8 j the third thro' that of the Flour- Line of 9 ; and so of others.

But when the Sun rifes at 4 in the Morning, the Point in the Tropick of as, wherein the Hour Line of j cuts it, is that thro' which the first Babylonian Hour-Line must pass ; the Interfection of the i four-Line of 6 in the said Tropick, that thro' which the second Babyloni- an flour- Line must pass •, the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 7 with the said Tropick, that Point thro' which the third Babylonian Hour-Line must pass j and so of others. Then if a

Ruler be laid to the Point wherein the Hour-Line of 5 cuts the Tropick of Cancer, and or the Point in the Equinoctial Line cut by the Hour-Line of 7, and you draw a right Line" thro' them ; this Line will reprefent the fir ft Babylonian Hour-Line. Proceeding in this manner for the other Babylonian Hour-Lines, you will find that the 8th Babylonian Hour-Line will pass thro' the Point the Tropick of Cancer is cut by the Aftronomical Hour-Line of 1 2, and the Point in the Equinoctial cut by the Hour-Line of 12 ; and the 5th Babylonian flour- Line thro' the Point in the said Tropick cut by the Hour-Line of 7 in the Evening, and the Point in the Equinoctial Line cut by the Hour-Line of 5.

One of the Babylonian Hour-Lines being drawn, it is afterwards eafy to draw all the' others ; because they proceed orderly from one Aftronomical Hour-Line to the other, on the Parallel and the Equinoctial Line, as appears /w Figure. Finally, The Sun lets at the 16th Babylonian Hour, when the Day is 16 Hours long : he fets at the 12th when he, is in the Equinoctial •, and at the 8th when the Night is 16 Hours long, because he always rifes at the 24th Babylonian Flour.

You must reason nearly in the fame manner for pricking down the Italian Hour-Lines. Here we always reckon the Sun to fet at the 24th Flour ; and confequently in Summer, when the Nights are but 8 Flours long, he rifes at the 8th Italian Flour ; at the Time of the Equinox he rifes at the 12th Italian Hour ; and in Winter, when the Nights are 16 Hours long, he rifes at the 16th Italian Hour : and therefore the Hour-Line of the 23d Italian Flour must pass thro' the Interfection of the Aftronomical Hour- Line of 7, and the Summer Tropick the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 5, and the Equinoctial Line, and the Inter- fection of the Hour-Line of 3, and the Winter Tropick. But two of the said Points are fufficient for drawing the said Italian Hour-Line. The 2id Italian Hour-Line pafTes thro' the Interfection of the Hour-Line of 6 in the Evening, and Summer Tropick, the Interfec- tion of the Hour-Line of 4, and the Equinoctial Line, and the Interfection of the Hour- Line of 2, and the Winter Tropick. Proceeding on thus, you will find that the 1 8th Italian Hour-Line passes thro' the Points of the 12th Equinoctial Flour, that is, at the Time of the Equinox, it is Noon at the 1 8th Italian Hour j whereas at the Time of the Summer Solftice it is Noon at the 1 6th Italian Flour, and at the Winter Solftice it is Noon at the 20th Italian Flour, in all Places where the Pole is elevated 49 Degrees, as may be feen in the following Table.

A TABLE for drawing the Babylonian and Italian Hour-Lines upon

The Use of the Italian Hour-Lines upon a Dial may be to find the Time of the Sun's fetting, in fubftracting the Italian Hour prefent from 24 •, and by the Babylonian Flours may be known the Time of the Sun's rifing.

How to draw the Almacanters, and the Azimuths.

The Almacanters or Circles of Altitude are reprefented upon the horizontal Dial by cor&gt; centrick Circles, and the Azimuths by right Lines terminating at the Foot of the Style B, which reprefents the Zenith, and is the common Center of all the Almacanters : and there- fore you need but divide the Meridian B XII into Degrees, the Extremity of the Style C being the Center •, and the Tangents of those Degrees on the Meridian will be the Semidiame- ters of the Almacanters, which shall terminate at the two Tropicks. Now to find these Tan- gents, you may use a Quadrant like that of Figure 8, in this manner : Lay off the Length of the Style C B from A to H, and draw the Line II I parallel to the Side A C of the Qua- drant •, then will this Line be divided into a Line of Tangents by Radii drawn from the Cen- ter A to the Degrees of the Limb. And these. Tangents may be taken between your Com- pafTes, and laid off upon the Meridian Line B XII. in such manner, that the 90th Degree anfwers to the Point B. But since this Dial is made for the Latitude of 49 Deg. and so con- fequently the Sun in his greateft Altitude there, is but 64 Deg. 30 Min. you need only prick down this greateft Altitude, which will terminate at. the Summer Tropick.

This being done, if one of the Circles of Altitude be divided into every 10th Deg. be- ginning from the Meridian B XII. which is the 90th Azimuth, and thro' these Points of Division right Lines are drawn to the Foot of the Style B : these right Lines will reprefent the Azimuths or vertical Circles. We have not drawn them upon the Dial, for avoiding Confufion, but they may be eafily conceived. •

Now the Use of the Almacanters is to fhew the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon at any time, and of the Azimuths, to fhew what Azimuth or vertical Circle the Sun is in: and this is known by obferving what Circle of Altitude or Azimuth Line, the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style of the Dial falls upon.

"How to draw the Meridians or Circles of ' TerRestrial Longitude upon the horizontal Dial.

About the Point D, the Center of the Equinoctial Circle, defcribe the Circumference of Fig, 7. a Circle, and divide it into 360 equal Parts or Degrees, or only into 36 Parts, for every 10th Degree 5 then from the Hour-Line of 12, which reprefents the Meridian of the Place for which the Dial is made, viz. Paris, count 20 Deg. West ward for its Longitude, or Di- ftance from the first Meridian pafling thro' the Point G ; on which having wrote the Number 360, prolong the Line G D to E^ in the Equinoctial Line, and afterwards from the Center A draw the first Meridian thro' E, which paries thro' the Ifland de Fer, and so of others. But it will be eafier to draw the Meridians eaftwardly for every 5th or 1.0th Degree, and place those principal Cities upon them whose Longitudes you know : as, for example, Rome is 10 ! Deg. more eaftwardly than Paris, Vienna 15 Deg. more eaftwardly than the said City of Paris, and so of other eminent Cities, whose Differences of Meridians from that of Paris, are known by a good Globe, or Map, made according to the exact Obfervations of the Academy of the Sciences.

The Use of these Meridians on the Dial* is, to tell at any time when the Sun fliines thereon, what Hour then it is under any one of the said Meridians, in adding to the time of Day at Paris, (for which the Dial is made) as many Hours as there are times 15 Deg. of Difference between the Meridians, and 4 Min. of an Hour for every Degree.

For example ; When it is Noon by this Dial at Paris, it will be One a- clock at Vienna* because this City is more to the East than Paris by 15 Deg. and confequently receives the Sun's Light fooner than Paris does. And at Rome it will be 42 Min. paft 12, because it is 10 4- Deg. more eaftward than Paris, and so of others. Thefe Lines of Longitude repre- fent the Meridians of the Places attributed to them ; so that when the Shadow of the Style falls upon any one of them, it will be Noon under that Meridian.

CHAP. IV.

Of the ConflruEiion and Uses of Instruments for drawing Dials

upon different Planes.

Hp HE eighth Figure reprefents a Quadrant made of Brass or any solid Matter, of a big- pig. 8.

f nefs at pleafure, having the Limb divided into 90 Degrees. The Use of this Qua- drant may be to find the Lengths of Tangents, and by this means to divide a right Line into Degrees, as we did the Meridian of the horizontal Dial (Fig. 7.) we may find likewise thereon the Divisions of the Equinoctial Line thro' which the Hour-Lines must pass, in re- gular Dials ; as alio in declining Dials, if the Subftyle falls exactly upon a compleat Hour- Line, by laying off the Length of the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle, from the Center A to H or L, and drawing a right Line, as H I or LM, parallel to the Radius of the Qua- drant AC. For example, the Length L 1 or n, anfwering to 15 Deg. of the Ouadrant, shall be the Tangent of the first Hour-Line's distance from the Meridian or SubftyTe of the Dial, which being laid off upon the Equinoctial Line, whose Radius is supposed equal to AL, will determine a Point therein thro' which the said Hour-Line must be drawn. L 12, anfwering to 30 Deg. of the Limb of the Quadrant, will be the Tangent of the second Hour-Line's distance from the Meridian or Subftyle. L 3, the Tangent of 45 Deg. will be that of the third, and so on. Now if by this means you draw the Hour- Lines of three Hours fucceftively on each side the Meridian or Subftyle, which in all make fix Hours fucceffively •, these are fufficient for finding the Hour Lines of the other Hours, according to the Method before explained in fpeaking of declining Dials, and which may be even applied to all re- gular Dials. For example, If the Hour-Lines of fix Hours fucceffive be drawn upon an horizontal Dial, as, from 9 in the Morning to 3 in the Afternoon, you may draw all the other Hour-Lines of the Dial by the aforsaid Method; as the Hour-Lines of 7 and 8 in the Morning, and 4 and 5 in the Afternoon, whose Points in the Equinoctial Line are

fometimes troublefome to be pricked down, and principally the Points of the Hour-Lines of 5 and 7, because of the Lengths of their Tangents.

The Hour-Lines found by the abovefaid Method, which we shall not here repeat, will ferve for finding of others ; and these which are last found being produced beyond the Cen- ter, will give the opposite ones.

The laid Quadrant will ferve moreover as a portable Dial, since the Hour-Lines may be drawn upon it by means of a Table of the Sun's Altitude above die Horizon of the Place for which the Dial is to be made. See more of this in the next Chapter.

The Conflrufiion of a moveable horizontal Dial.

Fl i- 9- This Instrument is compofed of two very fmooth and even Plates of Brass, or other solid

Matter, adjufted upon each other, and joined together by means of a round Rivet in the Center A. The undermost Plate is square, the Length of the Side thereof being from 6 to 8 Inches, and is divided into twice 90 Degrees ; by means of which, the Declinations of Planes may be taken. The upper Plate is round, being about 8 Lines fhorter in Diameter than is the Length of the Side of the under Plate, and having a little Index joined to the Hour-Line of 12, (hewing the Degree of a Plane's Declination.

About the Center A is drawn an horizontal Dial upon the upper Plate, for the Latitude of the Place it is to be used in, and the Axis B is so adjufted, that the Point thereof ter- minates in the Center A, wherein a small Hole is made for a Thread to come thro'. There is also a Compass D fattened to this upper Plate, having a Line in the Bottom of the Box, fhewing the Variation of the Needle.

The Use of the moveable horizontal Dial.

The Use of this Instrument is for drawing Dials upon any Planes, of whatfoever Situa- tions (as on declining inclining Planes, or both) in the following manner :

First draw a Horizontal or level Line upon the proposed Plane •, place that side of the Square along this Line, whereon is wrote the Side applied to the Wall, and turn the horizontal Dial 'till the Needle fettles itfelf over the Line of Declination in the Bottom of the Box : then extend the Thread along the Axis of the Dial 'till it meets the Plane, and the Point wherein it meets the said Plane will be the Center of the Dial. This being done, extend the Thread along each of the Hour-Lines of the horizontal Dial that the Plane can receive, and mark the Points on the horizontal Line upon the Plane, cut by the Thread : then if Lines be drawn from the Center found on the Plane thro' each of those Points, those will be the refpective Hour-Lines that the Thread was extended along on the horizontal Dial, and mult have the fame Figures fet to them. Note, If the Dial be vertical, not having any Declination, the Flour-Line of 12 will be perpendicular to the horizontal Line of the Plane.

The lubftylar Line is drawn thro' the Center of the Plane, and the Angular Point of a Square, one Side whereof being laid along the horizontal Line, and the other Side touching the Style of the horizontal Dial.

Again, The Distance from the Side of the Square laid along the Plane to the Axis, is the Length of the right Style, which being laid along in the fame Place at right Angles to the Subftyle, you may draw the Axis from the Center to the Extremity thereof-, which may be iormed on the Plane by means of an Iron Rod, parallel to the Situation of the Thread ex- tended along the Axis of the horizontal Dial, and must be fuftained by a Prop planted in the Plane perpendicular to the Subftyle.

If you have a mind to have a right Style only, some Point must be fought in the Subftyle distant from the Center of the Dial, proportional to the Bignefs of the Dial, and an Iron- Rod must be fet up perpendicularly therein : but the Point of this Rod must touch the Thread extended along the Axis. Finally, You may give what Figure you pleafe to the Dial, and produce the Flour-Lines as is neceffary, according to the bigness of the Plane. If a great Dial is to be drawn, you may place the Instrument at a Distance from the Plane it is to be drawn on j but then you must take care that it be very level, and the Side thereof parallel to the Plane. And if North Dials are to be drawn, having first found the Declination of the Plane, for Example, 45 Deg. North-weftwardly, place the Index of the Dial over the Degree of the opposite Declination on the square Plate, viz. over 45 Deg. South-eaft- wardly, then invert the whole Instrument, and extend the Thread along the Axis, that so the Center of the Dial may be found upon the Plane underneath the horizontal Line, on which having pricked down the Points thro' which the Hour-Lines mult pats, you may draw them to the Center, and then proceed as before.

The Conjlruftion of the Sciaterra.

F'g- &gt;o. This Instrument is compofed of an Equinoctial Circle A, made of Brass or any other solid

Matter, adjufted upon a Quadrant B. The Point of the Hour of 1 2 of this Equinoctial Circl- is fattened to one end of the Quadrant, and a little Steel Cylinder about two Lines in Diame- ter, fcrving for an Axis, and going thro' the Center of the Equinoctial Circle, is so fixed to the other End C of the Quadrant, as to keep the said Equinoctial Circle fixed at right Angles to the- Quadrant.

The Quadrant is divided into 90 Deg. and is made to Aide on the Top of the Piece L, according to different Elevations of the Pole. The little Ball G is hung at the End of a Thread, whose other End is fattened to the Top of an upright Line on the Piece L, and fo by means of this, and the Ball and Socket H, the Instrument may be fet upright. The Piece I is of Steel, and the End thereof is forced into a Wall or Plane, to fupport the whole Instrument when it is to be used. The Figure D is the Trigon of Signs put on the Axis, and turns about the fame by means of a Ferril. This Trigon has a Thread F fattened to the Extremity thereof, and there is another Thread E fattened, to the Center of the Dial. But note, We do not place the Trigon upon the Axis, unlefs when the Arcs of the Signs are to be drawn upon Dials.

The Use of the Sciaterra.

You must first force the Steel Point I, into the Wall or Plane whereon a Dial is to be drawn, and place the Quadrant to the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole : then you must take a Square Compass^ and lay the Side thereof along the Plane of the Quadrant, and turn the Instrument until the Needle fixes itfelf directly over the Line of Declination ; or if you have not a Compass when the Sun fhines, and the Hour of the Day is known, turn the In- ftrument 'till the Shadow of the Axis falls upon the Hour of the Day upon the Equinoctial Circle.

The Instrument being thus disposed, extend the Thread E from the Center along the Axis 'till it meets the Wall or Plane proposed, and there make a Point for the Center of the Dial : then extending the said Thread over each Hour of the Equinoctial, note the Points wherein it meets the Wall or Plane, and draw Lines from the Center (before found) thro' them, and those will be the Hour-Lines. After this, you may give the Dial what Figure you pleafe, and fet the fame Figures upon the Hour-Lines as are upon the correfpondent Hours of the Equinoctial Circle. Note, The Style is fet up in the manner we have mentioned in fpeaking of the moveable horizontal Lial.

If the Arcs of the Signs, or diurnal Arcs, are to be drawn upon the Dial, you must put the Ferril at the End of the Trigon upon the Axis, and fix it over each Hour of the Equi- noctial one after another by means of the Screw : then extending the Thread F along the Lines appertaining to each Sign, mark as many Points on each Hour-Line on the Wall or Plane, and join them by curve Lines, which shall form the Arcs of the Signs, whereon must be fet their refpective Characters.

The Arcs of the Signs may be otherwise drawn in the following manner : The Akis of the Dial being well fixed, chufe a Point in the fame for the Extremity of the right Style, repre- fenting the Center of the Earth •, and upon this Axis put the Ferril of the Trigon in such manner, that the Extremity of the right Style exactly anfwers to the Vertex of the Trigon, reprefenting the Center of the Equinoctial and the World. Then having fixed the Trigon by means of the Screw prefling against the Ax\s, turn it so that one of the Planes thereof (for the Signs ought to be drawn upon both sides) falls exactly upon the Hour-Lines one after another, and extend the Thread F along the Radius's of the Signs on the Trigon, and by means thereof mark Points upon each Hour-Line of the Wall or Plane : and if these Points be joined, we shall have the Arcs of the Signs.

Proceed thus for drawing North Dials, as likewise inclining and declining Dials, in ob- ferving to invert the Instrument when the Centers of the Dials are downwards.

The Conjlruftion of M. Pardie'j Sciaterra.

This Instrument, which is made of Brass or other solid Matter, of a Bignefs at pleafure* Fig. 11. confifts of four principal Pieces or Parts. The first is a very even square Plate D, called the horizontal Plane, because it is placed horizontal or level when using, having a round Hole E in the Middle, wherein is placed a Pivot, upon which turns the second Piece, called the meridional Plane, in such manner that the said Piece is always at right Angles to the hori- zontal Plane. On the narrow Side C of this Piece is fattened a Plumb- Line, whose use is for placing the Instrument level. The Top of this Piece is cut away into a concave Quadrant, both sides of which are divided into 90 Deg. beginning from the Perpendicular anfwering to the Middle of the Pivot, and there is a pretty deep Slit made down the Middle of this Qua- drant to receive a prominent Piece of a Semi-Circle H, which is the third principal part, that so the said Semi-Circle may be in the fame Plane as the second Piece is, and likewise be raifed or lowered according to different Elevations of the Pole. The Diameter of this Semi-Circle is called the Axis, and the Center thereof is (imply called the Center of the In- ftrument, like as the Thread fattened thereto is called the centeral Thread. The fourth Piece A is a very even Circle, both sides thereof being divided into 24 equal Parts, for the 24 Hours of the Day ; and this is fixed at right Angles to the Semi-Circle H, and so moves a- long with it. One of the Sides thereof is called the upper-side, and the other the under- side. The Trigon of Signs is drawn (in the manner before explained) upon both sides of the Semi- Circle, having the Point A, the Extremity of the Diameter of the Equinoctial Circle, for the Vertex thereof.

The Use of this Instrument.

Having first placed the Points of ir and =a= of" the Semi-Circle upon the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole in the Place for which you would draw a Dial, fet the Instrument upon a fixed horizontal Plane, near to the Wall or Plane you are to draw a Dial on. Then turn the Meridional Plane 'till the Shadow of the Equinoctial Circle falls upon the Day of the Month or Degree of the Sign on the Axis the Sun is in. This being done, the Shadow of the said Axis or Diameter of the Semi-Circle H, will fhew the Time of Day upon the Equi- noctial Circle, and the whole Instrument will be well fituated, the Meridional Plane anfwering to the Meridian of the Heavens, the Equinoctial Circle parallel to the Celeilial Equinoctial Circle, and the Axis of the Dial parallel to the Axis of the World. This being done, extend the Thread F fattened to the Center, along the Axis to the Wall or Plane you are to draw a Dial on, and the Point wherein it meets the Wall will be the Center of the Dial. The said Thread thus extended will likewise give the Pofition of the Style or Axis of the Dial ; for if an Iron Rod be placed in the said Point of Concourfe, and in the fame Situation as the Thread is, this will be the Style of the Dial : but if you have a mind to have a right Style only, you need but fet up a Rod in the Wall or Plane, whose end touches the Thread extended along the Axis of the Instrument ; and this Rod may have what Figure you pleafe given to it, as a Serpent or Bird, provided the Extremity of the Bill there- of meets the said Thread.

Now to mark the Hour-Lines upon the Dial, extend the Thread from the Center over the Plane of the Equinoctial Circle along the Hour- Lines thereof one after another, until it meets the Wall : then if Lines be drawn from the Center of the Dial to the said Points of Concourfe, these will be the Hour-Lines. But the Hour-Lines may be otherwise pricked down in the Night, by the light of a Link or Candle ; for the centeral Thread being first extended along the Axis, and faftened to the Wall, afterwards move the Link 'till the Shadow of the Axis falls upon any given Hour upon the Equinoctial Circle, and then the Shadow of the said extended Thread upon the Wall will be the fame Hour- Line ; and by draw- ing a Line upon the Wall along the fame with a Pencil, that will be the Hour-Line.

Proceed thus for drawing the other Hour-Lines. Note, This Method of drawing Dials is a very good one, particularly when a Surface is not flat and even, or when the Center of the Dial falls at a great Distance. You must obferve likewise, that the Shadow of the Axis of the Instrument fhews the Time of Day on the upper-side of the Equinoctial Circle from the 20th of March (N. S.) to the 22d of September, and on the under-side the other fix Months ; and the Side of the Equinoctial Circle that the Sun Ihines upon, must always but juft touch the Center of the Semi-Circle.

CHAP. V.

Of the Conflruciion and Uses of Portable Dials,

Of the ConJlruRion of a Globe.

.12. fTT^ H I S Figure reprefents a Globe, whereon are drawn the Meridians or Hour-Circles. X There are divers Sizes of them •, the great ones are fet up in Gardens, and are of Stone or Wood well painted, and the small ones are made of Brass, having CompafTes belonging to them, and may be reckoned among the Number of Portable Dials.

The manner of turning round Balls of any Matter is well known, but if a large Stone- Ball is to be made, that cannot be turned because of it's Weight : first, you must nighly form it with a Chifiel, and then take a wooden or brafs Semi-Circle of the fame Diameter as you defign your Ball. This being done, turn the Semi-Circle about the Ball, and take away all the Superfluities with a Rafpe, until the Semi-Circle every where and way juft touches the Superficies thereof j afterwards make it fmooth with a Pumice-Stone or Sea- Dog Fifh's Skin, fefr.

The Globe being well rounded and made fmooth, you must take the Diameter thereof with a Pair of Spheric CompafTes, viz. such whose Points are crooked, which suppose the right Line A B - t this Line is divided into two equal Parts in E by the vertical Line Z N, the upper Point whereof Z, reprefents the Zenith, and the lower one N, the Nadir. Now fet one Point of the Spheric CompafTes in E, and extend the other to A, and draw the Me- ridian Circle AZBN; likewise fetting one Foot of your CompafTes in Z, with the last Opening defcribe the Circle A E B, reprefenting the Horizon -, and from the Point B to C count 49 Deg. the Elevation of the Pole on the Meridian, and fetting one Foot of your CompafTes in the Point C, reprefenting the North Pole, extend the other to 41 Deg. on the Meridian below the Point B, and draw the Equinoctial Circle ; likewise fetting one Foot of your Compares, opened to the fame Distance as before, upon the Point in the Meridian cut by the Equinoctial, you may draw the Hour-Circle of 6 pafling thro' the Poles C and D. By this means the Equinoctial mail be divided into four equal Parts by the Meridian and Hour- Circle of 6 ; and if each of these four Parts be divided into fix equal Parts, for the 24 Hours of a Natural Day, and about the Points of Division as Centers, with the extent of a Qua- drant of the Globe, Circles be defcribed ; these will all pass thro' the Poles of the World C and D, and are the Hour-Circles. If you have a mind to have the half Hours or Quar- ters, each of the Divisions on the Equinoctial must be divided into 2 or 4 equal Parts. The Hour-Circles are numbered round the Equinoctial both above and below it, as appears per Figure.

If the Parallels of the Signs are to be drawn upon the Globe, you must count Upon the Meridian both ways from the Equinoctial, the Declination for every Sign, according to the Table expreffed ; as, for Example, For the two Tropicks you must count 23 Deg. 30 Min. from the Equinoctial, and about the Poles C and D, draw Circles on the Globe. Note&gt; The two Polar Circles must be drawn at 23 Deg. 30 Min. from the Poles, or 66 Deg. 30 Min. from the Equinoctial.

The Globe thus ordered must be placed upon a Pedeftal proportionable to the bigness thereof in a Hole made in the Nadir N, distant from the Pole the Complement of it's Ele- vation (viz. 41 Deg.) and fixed in a Garden, or elsewhere, well expofed to the Sun, so as to be conformable to the Sphere of the World.

But if it be a small Portable Globe, we place a little Compass upon the Pedeftal thereof* that so the Globe may be fet North and South when the Hour of the Day is to be fhewn there- by, which is fhewn thereon without a Style, by the Shadow of the fame Globe : for the Sha- dow or Light thereon always occupies one half of the Globe's Convexity, when the Sun fhines upon it j and so the Extremity of the Shadow or Light fhews the Hour in two opposite Places. If, moreover, the different Countries on the Earth's Superficies, as likewise the principal Cities, are laid down upon the Globe according to their true Latitudes and Longi- tudes, you may difcover any Moment the Sun fhines upon the fame, by the illuminated part thereof, what Places of the Earth the Sun mines upon, and what Places are in Darknefs. The Extremity of the Shadow fhews likewise what Places the Sun is rifing or fetting at j and what Places have long Days, and what have fhort Nights : you may likewise distinguish thereon the Places towards the Poles that have perpetual Night and Day. All this is eafy to be underftood by those who are acquainted with the Nature of the Sphere. Note, This Dial is the most natural of all others, because it refembles the Earth itfelf, and the Sun mines thereon as he does on the Earth.

You may find the Hour of the Day otherwise, by means of a thin brafs Semi-Circle di* vided into twice 90 Deg. adjufted to the Poles or Extremes of the Axis, by help of two little Ferrils. This Semi-Circle being turned about the Globe with your Hand, until it only makes a perpendicular Shadow upon the Globe, reprefents the Hour-Circle wherein the Sun is, and confequently fhews the Hour of the Day, and also what Places of the Earth it is Noon at that Time. But in this Cafe the Number 12 must be fet to the Meridian, and the Numbers 6 and 6 to the two Points wherein the Equinoctial cuts the Horizon : and this is the reason why we commonly place two rows of Figures along the Equinoctial. The Shadow of the two ends of the Axis, if they are continued out far enough beyond the Poles, and the Hours are -figured round the Polar Circles, will likewise fhew the Hour. Note* In order to* make small Portable Globes univerfal, we adjuft Quadrants underneath them, that so the Pedeftal may be flid according to the Elevation of the Pole. This is eafy to be underftood.

The ConftruBion and Use of the Concave and Convex Semi-Cylinder.

Thefe Dials, which are made of different bigneffes, the small ones of Brass, and the great ones of Stone or Wood, are very curious on account of their fhewing the Hour of the Day without a Style. Their Exact nefs confifts very much in being very round and even both within side and without.

The 13th Figure reprefents one of these Dials, fet upon and fattened on it's Pedeftal, in- Fig- 13^ Clining to the Horizon under an Angle equal to the Elevation of the Pole, and directly facing the South : and therefore the Hour-Lines and the Edges A B, a b, ferving as a Style, are all parallel between themfelves, and to the Axis of the World. The whole Convex Cylinder is divided into 24 equal Parts, or twice 12 Hours, by parallel Lines ; and the Concave Semi- Cylinder is divided into 6 equal Parts by Right Lines, which are the Hour- Lines from 6 in the Morning, to 6 in the Afternoon.

Now when the Sun fhines upon this Dial, the Hour of the Day is fhewn on the Convex side thereof, by the defect of Light, that is, by a right Line feparating the Light from the Shadow. But the Hour of the Day is fhewn in the Concave part of the Dial, by the Shadow of one of the Edges A B or a b •, so that when the Sun in the Morning is come to the Hour-Circle of 6. the Shadow of the eaft Edge ab will then fall upon the other Edge A B, which is the Hour-Line of 6 : and as the Sun rifes higher above the Horizon, the Shadow of the laid Kdge a b will defcend and fhew the Hour among the Hour-Lines. (Note t

The Figures on the Top are for the Morning Hours, and those on the Bottom for the After- noon ones.) When the Sun is come to the Meridian, he directly fhines into the Dial, and then the Edges will caft no Shadow : but when the Sun has pafled the Meridian, and de- fcends weftwards, the Shadow of the opposite Edge A B will mew the Hour from 12 to 6 in the Evening. If you have a mind to have the Halves and Quarters of Hours, you need but double or quadruple the Divisions.

Small Dials of this kind have Companies belonging to them, that so the Dials may be ki North and South.

The Conjlrutlion and Use of the Vertical Cylinder.

This is a vertical Dial drawn upon the Superficies of a Cylinder by means of a Table of the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon at every Hour, when he enters into every 10th De- gree of the Signs, according to the Latitude of the Place for which the Dial is to be drawn j and for this end the following Table is calculated for 49 Degrees of Latitude.

A TABLE of the Sun's Altitudes for every Hour of the Day at his Entrance into every 10th Degree of the Signs, for the Latitude of 49 Degrees.

We now proceed to fhew the Construction of the of or ef aid Dial upon a Plane which afterwards may be made Cylindrical, or wrapped round a Cylinder ; or this Dial may be made upon the Surface of a Cylinder itfelf if the Lines be drawn thereon as upon a Plane.

Fig. i 4 . Defcribe the Right-angled Parallelogram A B C D upon a brafs Plate or Sheet of Paper,

whose Breadth A B or CD let be nearly equal to the Circumference of the Cylinder it is to be wrapped round, and prolong the Line A B, upon which afiume A E for the Length of the Style, which mail determine the Length of the Cylinder. Then about the Point E, as a Center, with the Radius E A, make a circular Arc equal to the Sun's Meridian Altitude at his entrance into Cancer, and draw the occult Line E D, determining the Length or Height ef the Cylinder AD -, but if this length was given, and the Length of the Style required, you must delcribe an Arc about the Point D, equal to the Complement of the Sun's great- eft Meridian Altitude, which, if the greateft Altitude be 64 Deg. 30 Min. will be 25 Deg. 30 Min. and draw the occult Line DE&gt; which shall determine the Length of the Style E A, proportioned to the Length of the Cylinder.

This being done, divide the Arc A F into Degrees and Minutes, and draw occult Lines thro' each of the Points of Division, from the Center E to tiie Line A D, that so this Line

rtiay be made a Scale of Tangents. But this Line may be otherwise divided, by supposing the Radius AE ioo or iooo equal Parts, according to the Length of the Cylinder, and taking the correfpondent Tangents from printed Tables, and laying them off from A.

Things being thus ordered, divide the Sides A B, DC, into 6 equal Parts, and join the points of Division by five parallel right Lines, which will reprefent the beginnings of the twelve Signs ; then trifect each of these parallel Spaces for the ioth and 20th Degree of each Sign. Now by this means the Beginnings of the Months may be fet upon your Dial, be- caufe there will be no fenfible Error in fixing the Sun's Entrance into every Sign the 20th Day of every Month (N. S.). Then to prick down the Hour-Points upon all these Lines one after another, you must use the foregoing Table : for example, to prick down the Houi- Point of 10 in the Morning, or 2 in the Afternoon, upon the Line A D reprefenting the Summer Tropick, you will find by the Table, that the Sun's Altitude at the Time of the Summer Solftice at the Hours of 10 or 2, is §5 Deg. 19 Min. therefore you must take the Tangent of 55 Deg. 19 Min. from your Scale of Altitudes A D, and lay off from the Side A B upon the said Tropick, and then you will have a Point therein thro' which the proposed Hour-Line mufl pass. Again, To prick down the Hour- Point of the said Hour of 2 upon another Parallel, suppose on that of the ill Degree of Leo or Gemini, you will find by the Table that the Sun's Altitude will then be 52 Deg. 34 Min. and the Tangent of these Degrees being taken from the Scale of Altitudes A D, and laid off upon the said Pa- rallel from A B, will give a Point therein thro' which the Hour-Line of 2 must pass. And if you proceed in this manner, and find Points in the other Parallels, and likewise on their Divisions of every ioth and 20th Degree •, these Points joined will give the curved Hour- Line of 10 in the Morning, or 2 in the Afternoon.

And thus likewise may be found Points in the Parallels thro' which the other Hour- Lines must pass •, which being done, you must join all those belonging to the fame Hour by an even Hand, and mark the Characters of the Signs, the first Letters of the Months, as likewise the Hour-Figures* each in their refpective Places, as per Figure, and your Dial will be finifhed; which afterwards must be wrapped about the Cylinder, or bent Cy- lindrically, so that the Lines reprefenting the two Tropicks be parallel between them- felves.

The Style is fattened to a Chapiter ferving as an Ornament, and must be moveable on the&gt; Line A B, that so it may be placed at right Angles on the Degree of the Sign or Day of the Month. This Dial being placed upright, or hung by a Ring, turn it to the Sun, so that the Shadow of the Style may fall down right upon the Parallel of the Day you defire to know the Hour in, and then the Extremity thereof will fhew the Hour or Part.

The Sun's Altitude may be (hewn likewise by this Instrument thus : Put the Style uport the Scale of Altitudes, keeping the Cylinder fufpertded or horizontally placed, and turn it about so that the Style be towards the Sun •, then the Shadow of the Extremity thereof shall ihew the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon.

The abovefaid Parallelogram may ferve likewise as a Dial, without being wrapped round a Cylinder, or turned up cylindrically, if the Style be so adjufted as to Aide along the Line A B, that so it may be fet over the Day of the Month, or Parallel of the Sign the Sun is in. This is eafily done, in making a little Slit along the Top of the Plate, and flatting the Foot of the Style, so that it may Hide in the said Slit without varying it's Length. Now if this Parallelogram be placed upright, and the Line AB level (which may be eafily done by means of a Plumb-Line faftened to one of the Sides), and you hold it thus in your hand, or fufpend it by a Ring, so that it be directly expofed to the Sun, and the Shadow of the Style falls upon the Parallel of the Sign or Month \ then the Extremity of the Shadow of the said Style will fall upon the Hour.

'The Conftrufiion and Use of a Dial drawn on a Quadrant.

This Figure reprefents a Portable Dial drawn on a Quadrant, whose Conftruction we have Fig. t, thought fit to lay down here, since it is made, as well as the Cylindrical Dial, by means ol a Table of the Sun's Altitude calculated for the Latitude of the Place the Dial is made for.

First, Divide the Limb B C of the Quadrant into Degrees, and about the Center A defcribe another Arc R S, reprefenting the Tropick of *s. Likewise divide the Radius A B nearly into 3 equal Parts, and with the Distance A D draw a circular Arc for the Tropick of Yf ; divide the Space B D into 6 equal Parts, and defcribe the like Number of circular Arcs about the Center A, which shall reprefent the Parallels of the other Signs, as they are denoted on the Side A C of the Quadrant. The next thing to be done, is to draw the Hour-Lines. Let it be required (for Example) to find a Point in the Tropick of 2s thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass : By the above pofited Table, the Sun's Al- titude (at Paris) at the said Time is 64 Deg. 29 Min. therefore take a Thread, or Ruler faftened to the Center A, and extend it to that Number of Degrees and Minutes on the Limb of the Quadrant, and where the Thread or Edge of the Ruler cuts the Tropick of ss, will be one Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must be drawn. Then feek the

Sun's Altitude when he enters into n, which being found 61 Deg. 12 Min. lay the Thread over 61 Deg. 12 Min. on the Limb, and where it cuts the Parallel of ii, make a Mark for a Point in the said Parallel thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass. And if you proceed in this manner, Points may be found in the Parallels, or their Parts (if the Quadrant be big enough), thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass, as likewise all the other Hour-Lines j and if the Points be joined, the curve Hour-Lines will be had, and the Dial will be finifhed, when there are two Sights fixed upon the Side A C.

The Use of this Quadrant.

Direct the Plane of the Instrument towards the Sun in fueh manner, that his Rays may pass thro' the Holes of the Sights G G, and then the Plumb-Line freely playing, will Ihew the Time of Day by interfering the Parallel that the Sun is in. But if you put a little Bead or Pin's Head upon the Plumb-Line, then you may extend the Thread from the Center, and Aide the Bead thereon, and fix it over the Degree of the Sign or Day of the Month, and holding up the Quadrant, as before, the Bead will fall upon the Hour of the Day.

The Conflruclion and Use of a Particular right-lined Dial.

Fig. 1 j, This Dial, which we call Particular, because it ferves but for one determinate Latitude,

is made upon a very even Plate of Brass, or other Metal, about the bigness of a playing Card. The Conftruction thereof is thus: First, draw the two right Lines A B, CD, crof- fing one another at right Angles in the Point E, about which, as a Center, with the Ra- dius E C defcribe the Circle C B D, and divide it into 24 equal Parts, beginning from the Point D ; then thro' each two Divisions thereof equally distant from the Points C and D, draw parallel right Lines, which will be the Hour-Lines, whereof D R is that of 12, BE that of 6, and C M that of Midnight. This being done, form the right-angled Parallelo- gram P M Q^R, and draw the occult Line D R, making an Angle with C D equal to the Elevation of the Pole, viz. 49 Deg. This Line shall reprefent the Radius of the Equi- noctial, and by means thereof the Trigon of Signs must be formed, having D for it's Ver- tex. In order for this, produce the Hour-Line of the Sun's rifing in the longeft Day of Summer, which here is the Hour-Line of 4 •, as likewise the Hour-Line of 6, until it meets the Radius of the Equinoctial Circle DR ; then the Point in the Radius of the Equinoctial cut by the Hour-Line of 6, will be the Center of a Circle, whose Diameter mail be perpen- dicular to the said Radius, and is terminated by the Interferon of the Hour-Line of 4 therewith. This Circle being defcribed, divide the Circumference thereof into 12 equal Parts, in order to form the Trigon of Signs, as is before explained in the third Chapter of this Book. Note* The two Tropicks will be at the Extremities of the said Diameter, each making an Angle of 23 Deg. 30 Min. with the Radius of the Equinoctial, the Vertex being the Point D. Now the next thing to be done, must be to make a little Slit along the Radius of the Equinoctial, that so a little Slider or Curfor may Hide along it, having a little Hole drilled thro' it for fattening a Thread and Plummet with a Bead or Pin's Head on the Thread. And after this, we place two Sights on the Extremities of the Line P Q^

The Use of this Dial.

Slide the Curfor, and fix the Hole in which the Thread is fattened over the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, or the Day of the Month •, then flip the Bead or Pin's-head along the Thread, until it be upon the Hour-Line of 12. This being done, hold up your In- ftrument, lifting it higher or lower 'till the Sun fliines thro' the Holes of the Sights R and S, and the Thread freely plays upon the Plane thereof ; then the Bead will fall upon the Hour of the Day.

The Conflruclion of an Univerfal right-lined Dial.

jff g- , 6 This right-lined Dial, which ferves for all Latitudes, is made of a bigness at pleafure,

upon a very even Plate of Brass or other solid Matter. The Construction of it is thus : Draw the Lines A B, CD, cutting each other at right Angles in the Point E, about which, as a Center, defcribe the Quadrant A F, which divide into 90 Deg. and with the Point E for the Vertex, make a Trigon of Signs according to the Method explained in Chap. 2. Divide each Sign into 3 Parts, each being 10 Deg. and fet the htft Letters of the Months to the Places correfponding to them, by supposing (as we have already) that the Sun's Entrance into every Sign is the 20th Day of the Month (N. S.) ; for Example, his Entrance into r the 20th of March, his Entrance into s the 20th of April* &c This may be without any fenfible Error in so small an Instrument. Now draw dotted Lines from the Center E thro' the Divisions of the Quadrant A F, to the Line A G, which will divide it into Points, from which Parallels must be drawn to the Line A B, which shall be the different Latitudes or Elevations of the Pole, which must be only marked between the two Tropicks, as you fee in the Figure, wherein they aic drawn ro every 5th Deg. On both sides the Point B lay off upon the Line B H, the Divisions that the Radii of the Signs of the Trigon make dn the Line a a, reprefenting the Latitude oF 45 Deg. that so the Repre- {entation of another Zodlack may be made upon the Line B H.

Now the manner of drawing the Hour-Lines upon this Dial is thus : Draw Lines thro* every 15th Deg. of the Quadrant A F, parallel to ED, which is the Hour-Line of 6- and these Parallels will be the Hour-Lines from 6 in the Evening to 6 in the Mornino- A L being the Hour-Line of Midnight. And if the parallel Spaces, be laid off on th? other side of the Hour-Line of 6, you will have the Hour-Lines from 6 in the Morning to 6 in the Evening. And for drawing the half Hours, divide each 15th Deg. of the Quadrant A F into half, and draw Parallel Lines between the Hour-Lines.

The Hour-Lines may be yet otherwise drawn, by means of a Circle, whose Diameter is the Line A B, and whose Circumference is divided into 24 equal Parts for the 24 Hours of the Day, or into 48, for the Half-Hours. For then if right Lines be drawn thro' the op- pofite Points of Division, parallel to E D, we shall have the Hour-Lines, and those of the Half-Hours, as we have said in the Conftruction of the former right-lined Dial.

About the Point I, as a Center, draw an occult Quadrant, which divide into 90 Deg. and laying a Ruler to the Center I, and on each Division mark the fame Degrees upon the Sides G Q, and G S of the Instrument. Note, By means of these Divisions we may find the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon, as we shall fhew by and by. R R are two Sights fixed on the Side G H. And the Piece K is a small Arm or Index, made of 3 Blades of Brass, so join- ed to each other by headed Rivets, that they may have a Motion either to the right or left i at the fharp end of this Ann is made a very little Hole, thro' which goes a Thread with a Plummet at the end thereof, and a little Bead or Pin's Head thereon. This little Arm is faftened to the Instrument with a headed Rivet, that so it may have a Motion at the Place K.

The Use of this Dial.

If the Hour of the Day be to be found by this Instrument, you must adjuft the End a of the Index on the Interfection of the Line of the Latitude of the Place, and the Degree of .the Sign the Sun is in, or the Day of the Month ; then extend the Thread, and flide the Bead to the fame Degree of the Sign in the little Zodiack, drawn on the Hour-Line of 12 B I. This being done, hold the Instrument up until the Sun fhines thro' the Sights R R, and the Thread freely playing upon the Plane of the Instrument, the Bead will fall upon the Hour of the Day.

If the Time of the Sun's rifing and fetting in all the Signs of the Zodiack for the Latitudes denoted upon the Instrument be required, fix the End a of the Index on the Interfection of the Line of the Latitude of the Place, and the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in ; then the Thread freely falling parallel to the Hour-Lines, will fhew the Hour of the rifing and fet- ting of the Sun. For Example, The End of the Index being fixed on the Interfection of the Sign of s*, and the Line of the Latitude of 49 Deg. the Thread will fall along the Hour-Line of 4 in the Morning, or 8 in the Evening : and this fhews, that about the eoth of June, (N. S.) the Sun rifes at Paris, at 4 in the Morning, and fets at 8 in the Evening, and so of others.

The Elevation of the Pole is found thus : Place the End of the Index on the Point I, and raife or lower the Instrument until the Sun's Rays pass thro' the Holes of the Sights ♦, then the Thread freely playing, will fhew the Sun's Altitude upon* the Degrees on the side OS or Q^G.

All these kinds of Dials, that fhew the Hour of the Day by the Sun's Altitude, are con- venient in this, that they fhew the Time of Day without a Compass ; but their common Imperfection is, that about Noon the Hour cannot be exactly determined by them, unlefs by several Obfervations to know whether the Sun increafes or decreafes in Altitude, and con- fequently whether it is before or after Noon.

The Conftruttion of an horizontal Dial for several Latitudes.

This Dial, which is made upon a very even and fmooth Plate of Brass, or other solid Plate 24, Matter, hath a little Piece of Brass in form of a Bird, the lower part of which is ad- Fig. 1. jufted in two little knuckles, that so it may be rendered moveable, and lie down upon the Plane of the Dial. This Bird is kept upright by means of a Spring that is underneath the Dial-Plate, which going thro' a little square Hole in the Plate, keeps the Bird firm upon it's Foot. There is a Style or Axis going into the Bird, which is double, the lower End. of which goes into a little Knuckle at the Center of the Dial, that so the said Style may be raifed or lowered, according to the Latitude. There is on the Style a circular Arc, where- on the Degrees are fet down from 35 or 40 to 60. There is a Slit made along this divided Arc, passing by the Eye of the Bird, that so it's Bill may be fet to the Degree of the Pole's Elevation, and fixed there. The Dial-Plate is hollowed in circular, that so a Compass may be added thereto, faftened underneath by two Screws. The Needle and the Glass covering it, are placed in the fame manner as in other Compasses, of which we Have al- ready fpoken.

The Surface of this Dial is divided into 4 or 5 Circumferences for the like Number of different Latitudes, according to some one of the Methods before laid down for diawirtg of horizontal Dials, whereof that by the Calculation of Angles is molt in use for fucli small Dials as these. They may be drawn also by means of a Plat-form, upon which are several Dials divided by the Rules before given. But this is well known to the Instrument- Maker.

The outmost Circumference, which is divided for 55 Deg. of Latitude, may well enough ferve for those Places contained between the 58th and 53d Deg. of Latitude. The second, which is divided for 50 Deg. of Latitude, may ferve for Places contained between the 53d and the 47th Deg. of Latitude. The third, which is divided for 45 Deg. may ferve for Places between the 47th and 42d Deg. And the fourth, which is divided for 40 Deg. ferves for Places contained between the 42d and 38 th Deg. of Latitude.

When a 5th Dial is drawn upon the Plate for the Latitude of 35 Deg. this ferves for all Places contained between the 37th and the 3 2d Deg. of Latitude. Now by means of a good Map of the World, or Globe, you may fee at what Places these Dials will be in use -, for that which is made for one Latitude, will ferve for all Places round about the Earth, having the fame North and South Latitude. We commonly grave underneath the Dial a Table of the principal Cities of the World with their Latitudes and Longitudes •, that so the conve- nient Circumference on the Plate may be chofe, and the Axis of the Dial raifed to the proper Elevation of the Pole.

The Use of this Dial.

To find the Hour of the Day, raife or lower the Style, so that the End of the Bill of the little Bird may anfwer to the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole marked on the Style, as at Paris against the 49th Degree. The Style being thus raifed, place the Dial parallel to the Horizon, that is, level, and turn it so to the Sun 'till the North Point of the Needle ufually marked with a little Ring, fixes itfelf ovef the Line of Declination, whereon is a Flower-de- luce&gt; and North is writ. Then the Shadow of the Style will fhew the Hour of the Day up- on the Circumference divided for the Latitude of the Place. You must take care not to fee the Dial near Iron, for this changes the Direction of the Needle.

'The Confiruftion of a Ring Dial.

Fig. 2. Take a very round Ring of Brass, or other solid Matter, about two Inches in Diameter,

Four or five Lines in breadth, and of a convenient Thicknefs, and affume the Point A at pleafure thereon (whereat there is a little Hole), about which, as a Center, defcribe a Qua- drant ADC, which divide into 90 Degrees. Then find the Sun's Altitudes in the foregoing Table at every Hour when he is in the Equinoctial for the Latitude of Paris, and laying a Ruler from the Center A thro' those Altitudes affumed on the Quadrant, you may draw Lines which will divide the concave Surface of the Ring into rhe Hour-Points. Now this Dial will be very good for the Times of the Equinox, it being fufpended by the Ring B, fo that the Line A D is upright.

But one of these Dials may be made for fhewing the Hour of the Day at any other time of the Year, if the Hole A be made moveable. For doing which, make the Arcs A E, A I, 23 Deg. for the Signs «, T T, m, and x •, A F, A K, 40 Deg. 26 Min. for the Signs h, ft, ~, and t -, and the Arcs AG, A L, 47 Deg. for the Signs es and kf. (The rea- fon why we affume these Arcs double, is, because Angles at the Circumference are but half those at the Center.) Now by this means we shall have a Kind of Zodiack upon the convex Surface of the Ring, whereon must be marked the Signs in their proper Places, or else the first Letters of the Months, that so the Hole A may be put to the Degree of the Sign, or the Day of the Month.

You must defcribe likewise 7 Circles in the concave Surface of the Ring, whereof that in the Middle will be for the Equinoctial, and the others for the other Parallels. This being done, about the Points A, E, F, G, I, K, L, as so many Centers, defcribe Quadrants of 90 Deg. upon which Quadrants affume the Altitudes of the Sun every Hour when he is in every of the Signs, and produce the Radii drawn from the Centers to the Points of Affump- tion, until they cut the Circumferences in the concave Part of the Ring, and you will have Points thereon for the Hour-Lines, which must be joined.

Note, Thefe Divisions may be feparately drawn, and afterwards transferred on the Ring.

The Use of this Dial.

Place the moveable Hole at the Degree of the Sign wherein the Sun is ; then holding the Ring fufpended, turn it towards the Sun, so that his Rays passing thro' the Hole A, may fall upon the convenient Circumference of the Sign in the concave Part of the Ring, and then you will have the Hour of the Day fhewn.

Chap. 5. of Sun-Dials. 245

To defcrifa the Hour- Lines upon another fort of Ring.

The fourth Figure reprefents th'13 Ring compleat, and the Parallelogram ABCD, repre* Fig. 3, Tents it laid open or ftrctched upon a Plane, chat so the Hour-Lines may be pricked down thereon before it be turned up circularly.

This Ring is made of a blade of Brass, or other solid Matter, being in length proportion- Fig. 4. able to the Bignefs you would have the Ring, and at least 4 or 5 Lines broad, with a pro- portionable Thicknefs, and whose Extremes AC, B D, are cut at right Angles. About the Points C and D defcribe two Quadrants A L, M B, and divide each of them into 9 ^ qual Parts •, and from each opposite Division draw the Parallels of the Signs, whereof the Line C F D (hall be for v and ===, A E B for the two Tropicks, and the others for the other Si&lt;ms placed according to their order. Then bifect the Parallelogram A B C D by the Line E F, and draw the Line G H feparately equal to E B, that so a Scale may be made thereof, which mull be divided into 9 equal Parts, each of which must be fubdivided into 10 equal Parts more by little dots, and so the said Scale will be divided into 90 equal Parts, anfwer- ing to the 90 Dcg. of a Quadrant. This being done, take the Degrees of the Sun's Alti- tude from the above pofited Table of Altitudes, at every Hour when the Sun is in the Equi- nox, and the Solftice% for the Horizon of Paris. For example, When the Sun is in the ift Deg. of sz, his Meridian Altitude is 64 Deg. 29 Min. take 64 \ equal Parts from the Scale G H between your Compasses, and lay them off upon the Brass Blade both ways from E to the Points I and K, as like wife from the Point F to the Points L and M, and join the Points I L and K M, by right Lines : then take from the Table the Sun's Altitude at the Hours of 1 and 11, when he is in the Summer Solftice, viz. 61 Deg. 54 Min. which here may be taken for 62 Deg. and opening your Compasses to the Extent of 62 equal Parts of the Scale, lay them off upon A B from K towards E, and you will have a Point of the Hour-Lines of 1 1 and 1 ; likewise take 41 equal Parts or Degrees, for the Sun's Meridian Altitude when he is in the Equinoctial, and lay them off from M to O, and from L to N, and the Points N and O are those thro' which the two Hour-Lines of 12 must be drawn. Moreover, take 39 Deg. 20 Min. the Sun's Altitude when he is in the Equinox, at the Hours of 11 and 1, from the Scale, and lay them off from the said Points M and L upon the said Line C D, and you will have two Points in the Line C D, thro' which the Hour-Lines of 1 1 and 1 must be drawn. And in this manner may Points be found in this Line, thro' which the other Hour-Lines must pass.

But now to find Points in the Line A B, or TrOpick of Capricorn? on this side the Point E, ♦hro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn, (for the Points of the fame Line, on the other side of E, for the Tropick of Cancer may be found in the fame manner as the Points for the Hour-Line of 11 and 1 was) you must take 17 4 Degrees, or equal Parts from the Scale, viz. the Sun's Meridian Altitude, when he is in the Tropick of Capricorn, and lay them off from I to P, and P will be the Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 12 must pass ; and fo may the Points be found thro' which the other Hour-Lines must be drawn. Now if the Points found in the Lines A B, and C D, thro' which the Hour-Lines pass, be joined by right Lines •, these right Lines will be the Hour-Lines.

But if you have a mind to be exacter, you may take the Degrees of the Sun's Altitudes at every Hour when he enters, and is in each 10th and 20th Degree of every Sign, and then find Points on the refpective Parallels on the Dial thro' which the Hour-Lines must be drawn, which will not be right Lines but Curves j and in this cafe the Dial will be exacter.

Having drawn the Hour-Lines, you must Number them on both sides the Lines A B, C D, and also fet down the Characters of the Signs, and the first Letters of the Months, each in their proper Place. When this is done, you must drill two little Holes in the Points R and S {viz. the middles of the Lines I L, K M) in a conical Figure, the greater Bases being outmost, that so the Sun's Rays may better come thro' them ; afterwards round or turn up the said Blade circularly, folder the Extremities A C, BD together, and place a Button, with a Ring in the middle of the Junction of the said Extremities, so that the whole Instrument be in equilibria ; which that it may, you must turn the outfide there- of.

The Use of this Instrument.

Hold the Ring fufpended, and turn the Hole proper for the Time of Year towards the Sun, so that his Rays may fall upon the Parallel of the Sign he is in, the Day wherein you ufe the Instrument -, and then the Hour of the Day will be (hewn thereon by a bright Spot or Point of Light.

Note, The Hole S is in use from the 20th of March, (N. S.) to the 2 2d of September, and the Hole R for the other fix Months. We likewise write upon the convex Superficies of the Ring near the little Holes, the 20th of March, and the 22d of September, as appears in Figure 3, and, lastly, obferve that these two last -Djals are proper but for one La- titude.

2,46 *Fhe Conjlruclion and Uses Book VIII,

The Construction and Use of the unherfal Agronomical Ring-Did.

Fig. 5. This Instrument, vvhofe Use is to find the Hour of the Day in any part of the Earthy

by a bright Spot of the Sun's Light, is made of Brass or other Metal, and confifts of two Rings, or flat Circles turned both within side and without. The Diameter of these Kings, which ought to be broad and thick proportionable to taeir bigneftes, are from two to fix Inches. The outward Ring A rtprefents the Meridian of any Place wherein one is, and there are two Divisions of 90 Degrees thereon, which are diametrically opposite to each other, one whereof ferves from our North Pole to the Equator, and the other from the Equa- tor to the South Pole.

The innermost Ring reprefents the Equator, and ought to turn very exactly within the outward one, by means of two Pivots or Pins put into Holes made diametrically opposite in the two Rings at the Points of the Hour of 12.

There is a thin Riglet (called a Bridge) with a Curfor marked C, compofed of two little Pieces that Aide in an Aperture made along the Middle of the said Bridge, and which are kept together by two small Screws. Thro' the Middle of this Curfor is a very little Hole drilled, that so the Sun may mine thro' it. Now the Middle of the said Bridge may be confidered as the Axis of the World, and the Extremities as the Poles of the World ; and there are drawn on one side thereof the Signs of the Zouiack with their Characters, and on the other side the Days and Names of the Months, or only their first Letters, being placed according to the refpect they have to the Signs. The Signs are divided into every 10th or 5th Degree, according to their Declination, by means of a Trigon already divided, the Vertex of which, or Extremity of the Radius of the Equinoctial, being within side the Equinoctial Circle, as at the Point F. The two Pieces D D which are fcrewed to the cuter- moll Ring, ferve to fupport the Bridge or Axis which is moveable round, and are so ordered as that the innermost Ring may lie exactly within the outermost, and they both make as it were but one. The two Pieces E are also fcrewed on the outermost Ring, and ferve as Props to keep the Equinoctial Circle or inward Ring at right Angles to the Meridian or outermost Ring.

We shall not here repeat the manner of dividing the two Quadrants into Degrees, and the Equinoctial Circle into Hours, Halves, and Quarters, having iufficiently fpoken of this elsewhere. We shall only add, that all the Divisions of the Equinoctial Circle must be drawn upon the concave Side thereof, which may be done by means of a Piece of Steel turned up square, according to the Curvature of the Circle.

Near the outward Edges, on each of the two flat Sides of the Meridian, is made a Groove for the Piece G to Aide therein, the Middle of which is bent inwards, that so it may go into the laid Grooves. The two Sides of this Piece, which must be well hammered that they may have a good Spring, are made flat, in order to prefs against the convex Surface of the Meridian, that thereby the Piece G may be held fall on any Degree of Division of the Meridian. The Button thro' which the Ring of Sufpenfion H goes, is riveted to the Middle of the Piece G, so that it may turn round very freely, and by this means the In- strument be very perpendicularly fufpended by the Ring H : for this is one of the principal things in which the Exactnefs of the Instrument confifts.

'The Use of the Agronomical Ring-Dial.

Place the inort Line a on the Middle of the hanging Piece G over the Degree of the La- titude of the Place you are in upon the Meridian Circle, for example, over the 49th Deg. at Paris ; and then put the Line crofting the little Hole of the Curfor on the Bridge to the Degree of the Sign, or the Day of the Month you defire to know the Hour of the Day in. This being done, open the Instrument so that the two Rings or Circles be at right Angles to each other, and fufpend it by the Ring H, so that the Axis of the Dial reprefented by the Middle of the Bridge be parallel to the Axis of the World.

Turn the flat Side of the Bridge towards the Sun, so that his Rays coming thro' the little Hole in the Middle of the Curfor, fall exactly on a Line drawn round the Middle of the concave Surface of the Equinoctial Circle, or innermost Ring ; and then the bright Spot or luminous Point ftiews the Hour of the Day in the said concave Surface of the Ring.

Note, The Hour of 12 cannot be ftiewn by this Dial, because the outermost Circle or Ring being then in the Plane of the Meridian, it hinders the Sun's Rays from falling upon the in- nermost or Equinoctial Circle. You must obferve likewise, that when the Sun is in the Equi- noctial, you cannot then tell the Hour of the Day by this Dial, because his Rays fall parallel to the Plane of the said Equinoctial Circle. But this is but about one Hour every Day, and four Days in the Year.

The ConflruRion and Use of a Ring- Dial with three Rings.

Fig 6, Tins Instrument differs from the precedent one in nothing but only a third Ring or

Circle, carrying the Sun's Declination. The Ring A reprefents the Meridian of the Place

you would use the Dial in ; the Ring B reprefents the h qu noctial Circle ; and the Ring D,

which turns exactly within the said Equinoctial Circle, produces the fame Effect, as the

Bridge reprefenting the Axis of the World in the precedent Instrument. The two Extre- mities of the Diameter of this last Ring, or the two Points of the Circumference thereof, whereat it is faftened to the Meridian, anfwer to the two Poles of the World, On the op- pofite Parts D D of the Circumference of this Circle, is denoted a double Trigon of Signs, whose Center is the Vertex wherein all the Radius's reunite, the Arcs of each of which are fubdivided into every 10th or 5th Degree, to which may be likewise fubjoined the Days of the correfpondent Months.

The Index E is faftened to the Center of the innermost Ringi having two Sights riveted to the Extremities thereof, each having a small Hole drilled therein, for the Sun's Rays to pass thro'. Note, Dials compofed in this manner fhew the Hour of 12, because the In- dex is without the Plane of the Meridian Circle : and when we make them large, as o or 10 Inches in Diameter, we divide the Equinoctial Circle into every 5th or every 2d .Minute.

This Dial hath a Piece F like as the former Dial has, going into a Groove made on each side the Meridian, to be did to the Latitude of the Place. We fometimes fet these Dials upon Pedeftals, nearly like those of Spheres, which are (lid to the Latitude ; and in this Cafe they are placed upon an horizontal Plain •, we likewise add CompafTes to them, by which means the Variation of the Needle may be exactly known.

The Use of this Dial.

Place the little Line in the middle of the hanging Piece F to the Latitude of the Place wherein you have a mind to know the Hour of the Day, and the fiducial Line of the In- dex on the Day of the Month, or Degree of the Sign the Sun is in. Then open the Equi- noctial Circle at tight Angles to the Meridian, and holding the Instrument fufpended, raife or lower the innermost Circle, so that the Sun's Rays may go thro' the Holes of the two Sights ; then the Line which is drawn along the middle of the Convexity of the said Circle, will fhew the Hour or Part drawn in the middle of the Concavity of the Equinoctial Circle, even at all times of the Day;

This may likewise be done fomething more convenient, when the Instrument is placed horizontally upon it's Pedeftal.

The Conjlruclion of an univerfal inclined Horizontal, and an Equinoclial Dial.

This Instrument confifts of two Plates of Brass, or other solid Matter, whereof the under- Fig. 7. one A is hollowed in about the Middle, to receive a Compass faftened underneath with Screws. The Plate B is moveable by means of a strong Joint at the Plate C. Upon this Plate is drawn a horizontal Dial for some Latitude greater than any one of those the Dial is to be ufeci in, and having a Style thereon proportionable to that Latitude ; for when the said Plane B is raifed by means of the Quadrant, the horizontal Plane must always have a less Latitude than that the Dial is made for, or otherwise the Axis of the Style will have an Elevation too little.

Initead of the Quadrant D we generally place but only an Arc from the Equator to 60 Degrees, which are numbered downwards, 60 being at the Bottom, and for this Latitude of 60 Deg. we commonly draw the aforsaid horizontal Dial. That Arc of 60 Deg. is faftened by two small Tenons, and may be laid down upon the Plate A, as likewise may the Style upon the Plate B, and both of these are kept upright by means of little Springs underneath the Plates. What remains of the Conftruction of this Dial, may be fupplied from the Figure thereof.

"The Use of the inclined horizontal Dial.

Raife the upper Plate B to the Degree of Latitude or Elevation of the Pole of the Place wherein you are, by means of the Graduations on the Quadrant D. Then if the Plane A be fet horizontal, so that the Needle of the Compass fettles itfelf over it's Line of Declina- tion, the Shadow of the Axis will fhew the Hour of the Day. Note., We grave the Names of several principal Cities, as likewise their Latitudes and Longitudes, underneath the two Plates, in order to avoid the Trouble of feeking them in Maps.

After the abovefaid manner, equinoctial Dials are made Univerfal throughout the whole Earth •, but here we must have a whole Quadrant. The upper Plate is commonly in form of a hollowed Circle, which we divide into 24 equal Parts, for the Hours, each of which we fubdivide into 4 equal Parts, for the Quarters j all these being drawn in the Concavity of the Circle.

There is a Piece that goes thro' the Circle, carrying the right Style, which is kept faft in the middle of the Circle by means of a little Spring faftened underneath the Circle -, and by this means the right Style may be raifed above the said Circle, and lowered underneath it. And when the equinoctial Dial is drawn, we use the little Piece F for a Style, placed in the Center of the Circle. Note, The upper part of the Dial fhews the Hour of the Day from the 22d of March, (N. S.) to the 2?.d of September, and the under part thereof the Hour of the Day, the other 6 Months of the Year.

The Use of the equinoctial Dial.

You must place the Edge of the equinoctial Circle to the Degree of the Elevation of the Pole, by means of the Quadrant •, then if the Dial be fet North and South by means of the Compass, the Shadow of the Style will fhew the Hour of the Day at all times of the Year, even when the Sun is in the Equinoctial, because the Circle is hollowed in,

The CoriftruEtion of an Azimuth Dial.

Fig. 8. This Dial, which is commonfy made in the Bottom of a Compass, is called an Azimuth

Dial, because it is made by means of the Azimuth's or Sun's Vertical Circles, upon a Plate of Brass, or other solid Matter, parallel to the Horizon. First, draw the Line A B, repre- fenting the Meridian, upon which defcribe a Circle at pleafure, half of which we shall only ufe here for drawing the Morning Hour-Lines, because those of the Afternoon are drawn after the fame way. Divide this Circle into Degrees, beginning from the Point A, repre- fenting the North Pole. Then trifect the Semi-Diameter AC, and take AD equal to two thirds thereof, which must be divided into 6 Parts, thro' each Point of Division •, about the Center C must be drawn concentrick Arcs, reprefenting the Parallels of the Signs, the Arc H being the Summer Tropick, that neaRest to the Center C the Winter Tropick, and each of the others for two Signs equally distant from the Tropicks, as appears per Figure.

The Parallels of the Signs may moreover be drawn, in defcribing a Semi-Circle upon the Line H D, which Semi-Circle being divided into 6 equal Parts, you must let fall dotted Pa- rallels upon the Line H D •, these Parallels will divide the said Line into unequal Parts, and if thro' the Points of Divisions Arcs be defcribed about the Center C, these Arcs will be the Parallels of the Signs at unequal Distances from each other.

Now for drawing the Hour-Lines, the following Table of the Sun's Azimuths must be used •, for example, to prick down a Point in the Tropick of Cancer, thro' which the Hour- Line of 11 in the Morning must be drawn, you will find the Sun's Azimuth will then be 3oDeg. 17 Min. and when he is in the first Degree of n, or last of ft, his Azimuth at the fame Hour is 27 Deg. 58 Min. and so of others. Therefore if a Ruler be laid on the Center C, and on the 30th Deg. and 27 Min. of the outward divided Limb, the Edge of the Ruler will cut the Parallel of se, in a Point thro' which the Hour-Line of 11 must pass : then keeping the Ruler to the Center, move it, and lay it over the 27th Deg. and 58th Min. of the outmost Limb, and you will have a Point in the Parallel of u and ft. thro' which the Hour- Line of :i must pass ; and in this manner may Points be found in the other Parallels thro* which the Hour-Line of 1 1 must pass ; and also Points in all the Farallels thro' which the other Morning Flour-Lines must pass : each of which Points belonging to the fame Hours being joined, you will have the curved Hour-Lines on one side of the Meridian. And to find the Points thro' which the Afternoon Hour-Lines must pass, take the Distances of each Point in the Parallels from the Meridian, and transfer them on the fame Parallels continued out on the other side of the Meridian, because the Sun's Azimuth at any two Hours equally distant on each side the Meridian, is the fame.

The Use of the Azimuth Dial.

Turn the Side B towards the Sun, so that the Shadow of the right Style planted in a Point without the Compass, and parallel to the Line of Noon, may fall along the Meridian Line : then the Needle pointing exactly North and South, will fhew the Hour of the Day in the Interfc&ion thereof with the Parallel of the Sign the Sun is in, upon condition that the Needle has no Variation. But since the Needle varies now above 12 Degrees at Paris, you must place the Style in the Point E over the Line of Declination or Variation K I, and adjuft the Shadow of the Style along the said Line of Variation, and by this means the Error arifing from the Needle's Variation will be avoided.

A TABLE of the Sun's Azimuth or Distance from the Meridian every Hour of the Day, for the Latitude of 49 Degrees.

Chap. 5. $f Ston-Diah. 249

The Conjiru&ion and Use of the Analemmatick or Ecliptick Horizontal Dial

This is called an Analemmatick Dial, because it is made by means of the Analemma, which is the Projection or Reprefentation of the principal Circles of the Sphere upon a Plane. The 9th Figure is the Analemma ; and the 10th Figure reprefents the Dial compleat, which (hews the Hour of the Day without a Compass.

Now to project the Analemma ; upon a very even fmooth Plate of Brass, draw the Lines Fig. 9, A B and C D, cutting each other at right Angles in the Point E, about which, as a Center, defcribe the Circle A C B D, reprefenting the Meridian, it's Diameter C D, the Horizon, and A B the prime Vertical. Then affume the Arc D F equal to the Elevation of the Pole, which here is 49 Dcg. and draw the Line E F reprefenting the Axis of the World ; likewise affume the Arc C G equal to the Height of the Equinoctial 41 Degrees, and draw the Line G E for the Equinoctial. Affume the Arcs G H, G I, each of 23 Deg. 30 Min. for the Sun's greateft Declination, and draw the Line H I cutting the Equinoctial in the Point Y, about which, as a Center, defcribe the Circle H L I K, or only half of it, which divide in- to 6 equal Parts, and thro' each Point of Division draw Parallels to the Equinoctial, which continue out to the Horizon ; then from the Sections made by the said Parallels on the Me- ridian, let fall the Parallels M, N, O, and P to the Horizon, and from the Sections made by the said Parallels on the Axis, let fall the indefinite Perpendiculars £ c , R b, Qji to the Horizon. This being done, take the DifTance E M between your CompafTes, with which fetting one Foot in N, with the other make a small Arc upon the Line Q^z, and with one Foot in O cut the Line R b with the other ; then, continually keeping the CompafTes opened to the Extent E M, fet one Foot in P, and cut the Line S t in the Point C.

Now to conftruct the little Zodiack, take the Distance $ C, and lay off from E towards A and B for the Tropicks of 25 and Jcf •, again, lay off the Distance 46, from the Point E on one side, for the Parallel of n, and on the other side for the Parallel of ~ ; and finally, take the Distance X a, for marking the Parallel of « on one side, and that of X on the other, and then the little Zodiack may be formed, as per Figure. Now to prick down the* Hour-Points, you must defcribe the Circle M T Z V about the Center E, with the Distance E M, and divide the Circumference thereof into 24 equal Parts, as likewise the Circum- ference of the Meridian A C B D, and from each opposite Point of Division in the Meridian draw ftrait Lines parallel to A B, and in the Circle M T Z V, ftrait Lines parallel to C D, and thro' the Tnterfections of these Lines that are neaRest to the Meridian, draw lightly an Ellipfis from Point to Point, as you fee in the Figure. Thefe Points of Section will be the Hour-Points, those for the Morning being on the left, and those for the Afternoon on the right ; and to have the half and quarter Hour-Points, the two Circles A C B D, M T Z V, must be divided into 96 equal Parts.

Things being thus prepared, transfer all the Hour-Points on another Brass Plate, and Fl 'g- lo &gt; form the Ellipfis B thereon, by lightly drawing Lines from Point to Point, and grave the pro- per Numbers upon it, as they are marked in the 10th Figure. Likewise transfer the Trigon of Signs upon the said Plate, taking each of the Distances between your CompafTes, the one after the other, so that the Signs v and ^ be in the Line of the Hour of 6, and place the Characters of the Signs thereon, as also the first Letters of the Months, each one in their order. When this is done, you must adjuft a Curfor C so as to flide along the middle of the Trigon. This Curfor carries the right Style D, which rifes and falls by means of two small Knuckles.

On the other part of this Plate, is drawn an horizontal Dial according to the common Rules, for the fame Latitude the Analemma is made for, and we place the Style or Axis E thereon upon the Hour-Line of 12, which rifes, falls, and is kept upright by means of a small Spring underneath the Plate.

The Use of this Dial.

Set the Dial parallel to the Horizon, and put the Curfor with it's right Style upon the Day of the Month, or Sign the Sun is in j then turn the Instrument until the fame Hour be fhewn upon the two Dials, which will be the Hour of the Day. If, for example, the Sha- dow of the Extremity of the right Style falls upon the nth Hour on the Analemmatick Dial, and at the fame time the Shadow of the Style of the horizontal Dial falls likewise up- on the 1 ith Hour, on the horizontal Dial ; then the true Hour of the Day will be that of 11. The Conveniency of this Dial confifts in this, that the Hour of the Day may be found thereby without a meridian Line, or Compass ; but then it must be pretty large, to fhew the Hour exactly.

The Conflruclion of an univerfal Polar, Eajl y and West Diah

This Instrument confifts of a very ftrait and fmooth circular Piece of Brass, or other Fg. u. Metal, pretty thick, that so it may preferve it's perpendicular Weight, as likewise that a Groove may be made round the Limb thereof, for a hanging-Piece to flide about the fame, like that on the aftronomical Ring.

o The Construction and Uses Book VIII.

About the Center cf the said circular Piece defcribe the Circumference of a Circle, which divide into twice 90 Degrees. Then draw a right Line from the 90th Deo rC e thro' the Center, representing the Equinoctial, near the Top of which afiume a Point at pleafure, thro' which draw a right Line perpendicular to the Equinoctial-Line, which shall be the Hour- Line of 6. Then to have the other Hour-Lines, you mult lay off the anfwerable Tangents upon the Equinoctial-Line both ways from the Point therein of the Hour-Line of 6 ; as the Tangent of 15 Deg. for the Hour- Points of 5 and 7 ; the Tangent of 30 Deg. for 4 and 8 ; the Tangent of 45 Deg. for 3 and 9, &c. and if Lines be drawn thro' these Points parallel. to the Hour-Line of 6, these will be the Hour-Lines •, and the Length of the right Style' must be equal to the Radius or Tangent of 45 Deg. and must be placed upright upon the Hour- Line of 6, at the Point wherein it cuts the Equinoctial-Line.

At the Points C C, on the Hour-Line of 9 in the Morning, and 3 in the Afternoon, are adjufted two small Knuckles, in which is placed the Piece V, which may lie down upon the circular Piece, and hkewife ftand at right Angles to it. Upon this Piece are pricked down the Hour- Lines of a Polar Dial, from 9 in the Morning to 12, and from 12 to 3 in the Af- ternoon. We shall not here repeat the manner of drawing these Hour-Lines, for we have fufficiently fpoken of this already, as likewise how to draw the Arcs of the Signs \ only ob- serve, that the Parallels of the Signs are divided into every 10th Deg. and the fir if. Letters of the Names of the Months are fet down in their proper Place.

The Style B is adjufted to the circular Piece with a Joint, that so it may be railed or lie flat upon the said Piece •, but it must be raifed so that the Extremity thereof may be exactly over the Point in the Equinoctial-Line cut by the Hour-Line of 6, and the Distance of the said Extremity from this Point equal to the Distance from the Hour- Line of 9 to the Hour- Line of 6.

The Use of the said Dial.

If you have a mind to find the Hour of the Day before Noon, place the little Line on the middle of the hanging Piece L upon the Latitude of the Place-, on that Quadrant on the Right-hand of the Style B, raife the Style so that the Extremity thereof be directly over the Interfection of the Equinoctial and the Hour-Line of 6, and it's Distance from that Point of Interfection equal to the Distance from the Hour-Line of 9 to the Hour-Line of 6. Then holding the Dial fufpendtd by it's Ring, expofe it to the Sun, so that the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style falls upon the Day of the Month ; and you will have the Hour of the Day upon the East or Polar Dial. But if the Hour of the Day be required in the After- noon, you must put the hanging Piece on the Latitude of the Place upon the Quadrant on the left side of the Style, and turn the Dial to the Sun so that the Shadow of the Extremity of the Style falls on the Degree of the Sign or Day of the Month. Then you will have the Hour of the Day as before.

Thus have I laid down the Conftruction and Uses of Portable Dials, chiefly in ufe, which may be fet North and South, without a Compass or Meridian Line. But before I clofe this Chapter, I shall briefly defcribe ibme other Portable Dials, which are curious enough, but are fomething difficult to make.

The first of these is a horizontal Dial of 2 or 3 Inches square, which we make of Brass or any other solid Metal, for a given Latitude, and whose Axis fhewing the Hour, is a Thread fattened at one end to the Center of the said Dial, and the other end of which is hung to the top of a pretty thick Brass Blade, placed at the Extremity of the Dial near the Hour- Line of 12. This Blade may lie down upon the Plarie of the Dial, and is kept upright by means of a Spring underneath the Dial ; and the Height of the Notch wherein the Thread lies above the Plane of the Dial, is equal to the Tangent of the Latitude.

About a quarter of the Height of the said Blade is adjufted thereon a Circle or Ring, proportioned to the bigness of the Dial-Plate. This Ring is moveable by means of a Joint, and so may lie down upon the Blade, and the Blade upon the horizontal Dial-Plane ; and when the Instrument is using, there is a Prop to keep this Ring at the Height of the Equi- noctial, viz. 41 Deg. but when the Thread ferving for an Axis is extended, it must exactly pass thro' the Center of this Ring.

The Concavity of the Ring is divided into Hours, Halves, and Quarters, as the equi- noctial Ring of the univerfal Ring-Dial is ; and there is a Bead or Pin's Head put upon the Thread, that so it may be moved to the Sign the Sun is in, and ferve as aCurfor to fhewthe Hour of the Day in the middle of the Concavity of the Ring or Equinoctial.

Now to place the Bead to the Sign or proper Month, you must have a feparate Brass Rig- let, having the Signs of the Zodiack, as also the Days of the Months drawn thereon in the manner they were drawn upon the Bridge of the univerfal Ring-Dial ; and having placed the laid Riglet from the Center of the horizontal Dial along the Thread or Axis, Aide the Bead to the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, and then take away the Riglet, and so will the Bead be placed for fhewing the Hour of the Day.

On the backfide of the Blade is drawn an upright Line for a Plumb-Line to play on, that so the Dial may be fet level. Note, This Dial may be rendered univerfal, if an Arc of a Circle divided into Degrees be adjufted behind the Bla^le by means of a Joint, so as it may-lie upon the Blade, and the Point whereon the Plumb-Line is hung by the Center of the said Arc ; for then the Dial may be fet to the Latitude, by making the Plumb-Line fall upon the proper Degree on the circular Arc. It is proper also to obferve, that the Hours from eicrht in the Evening to four in the Morning may be taken away from the Equinoctial Ring, that so this Dial may be of use at the Time of the Equinox.

The Use of the aforsaid Dial

Having placed the Bead to the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, or Day of the Month, as before directed, expofe the Dial to the Sun, and turn it to the right or left until the Shadow of the Bead falls upon the fame Hour or Part, on the middle of the Concavity of the equi- noctial Ring, as the Shadow of the Thread or Axis does on the horizontal Dial ; and then that will be the true Time of the Day.

We make several other portable Dials, as horizontal Aftrolabes, being Projections of the Sphere upon the Plane of the Horizon ; other Aftrolabes vertically uied by means of a Plumb-Line ; horizontal Dials made by means of the Sun's Altitudes, which are likewise fet North and South without a Compass, and whereon the Signs are drawn by right Lines iffuing from the fame Center, and the Hour-Lines, curve Lines ; as likewise other portable Dials, which are curious enough, whose Conftruction and Figures we referve for another time.

Horizontal Dials whereon are drawn the Signs, as that of Fig. J. Plate 23. may like- wife be fet North and South without a Compass, if the Dial be so placed in the Sun, that the Shadow of the Extremity of the right Style falls upon the Degree of the Sign the Sun is in, or Day of the Month. But here there is this Inconveniency, that the Distance of the Parallel of Cancer from the adjacent Parallels is so small, that the Space of 10 Days there cannot be distinguished. So that when we have done all we can, it is fcare pofiible to make a portable Dial that can fet North and South without a Compass or Meridian Line, without falling into one of these Inconveniencies, either of having the Hour-Lines near Noon too nigh each other, or not exactly fhewing the Hour of the Day at the Time of the Solftices, because of the small Difference that there is in the Sun's Elevations and Declination at those times.



CHAP. VI.

Of the ConflruSlion and Uses of a Moon-Dial, a7id a NoBurnal

or Star-Dial.

Of the Conjlruclion of an horizontal Dial for fhewing the Hour of the Night by the Moon.

THIS is called a Moon-Dial, because by it you may tell in the Night by the Shadow Fig. 12, of the Moon, what Hour- Circle the Sun is in. It confifts of two Pieces or Plates of Brass, or other solid Matter, of a bigness at pleafure. The under-Plate H, is in figure of a Parallelogram, and the upper one A is circular, turns about the ffiadowed Space L, and the Center B, and has a horizontal Dial drawn upon it for the Latitude of the Place, according to the Rules before prefcribed for drawing horizontal Dials. The under Plate hath a Circle thereon divided into 30' unequal Parts, for the Days of a Lunar Month. Thefe Divisions are made thus •, let D E be the equinoctial Line by which the horizontal Dial was drawn, and F the Center of the equinoctial Circle (or the Center by which the equinoctial Line is divided.) About this Center defcribe a dotted Circle, and divide it into 30 equal Parts, or half of it into 15, and having laid the Edge of a Ruler on the Center F, lay it over each Point of the Divisions of the said Circle one after another, and prick down Points upon the equinoctial Line ; then lay the Ruler to the Center B, and on each Point of Division of the equino&ial Line, and divide the Circle H ; and when you have divided half of it, transfer the fame Divisions on the other Semi-Circle, and by this means the whole Circle will be di- vided into 30 unequal Parts for the 30 Days of a Lunar Month, about which Numbers must be graved, as they appear per Figure. This being done, place the Axis B C anfwer- ing to the Elevation of the Pole, and difpofe it so that when it is fet up it may not hinder the Hour-Plate from turning about the Center B.

The Use of this Dial.
The Moon's Age must be found by an Ephemeris, or by the Epact, that so the Point of the Hour-Line of 12 on the horizontal Dial may be applied to the Day of her Age in the Circle H of the under Plate.

But before we go any further, you must obferve, that the Moon by her proper Motion recedes Eastwards from the Sun every Day about 48 Minutes of an Hour, that is, if the Moon is in Conjunction with the Sun on any Day upon the Meridian, the next Day fhe

will



252 The Coriflruaion and Uses Book VIII.

will crofs the Meridian about three quarters of an Hour and iotne Minutes later than the Sun : and this is the Reason that the Lunar Days are longer than the Solar ones ; a Lunar Day being that Space of Time elapfed between her Paflage over the Meridian, and her next PalTage over the fame ; and these Days are very unequal on account of the Irregularities of the Moon's Motion.

Now when the Moon is come to be in Oppofition to the Sun, flie will again be found in the fame Hour-Circle as the Sun is •, so that if, for example, the Sun fhould be then in the Me- ridian of our Antipodes, the Moon would be in our Meridian, and confequently would fliew the fame Hour on our Sun-Dials as the Sun would, if it was above the Horizon. But this Conformity would be of small duration, because of the Moon's retardation of about two Minutes every Hour. If moreover the Sun, at the Time of the Oppofition, be jult letting above our Horizon, the Moon being diametrically opposite to it will he juft nfing, csV. and therefore to remedy the said Retardation, we have divided the Circle H into 30 Parts.

Now the Point of the Hour-Line of 12 on the horizontal Dial being put to the Moon's Age, as above directed, and the under- Plate fet North and South by means of a Compass or meridian Line, the Shadow of the Style will fhew the Hour of the Night ; but to have the Hour more exact, you must know whether it is the first, second or third Quarter of the Moon's Day that you feek the Hour in, that so the Point of the Hour-Line of 12 may be fet against a proportionable part of one of the 30 Spaces or Lunar Days of the Circle H.

The Table on the under-Plate H, is used for finding the Hour of the Night by the Sha- dow of the Moon upon an ordinary Dial. To make this Table, draw 4 Parallel right Lines or Curves of any length, and divide the Space I I into twelve equal Parts for 12 Hours, and the two other Spaces K K into 15, for the 30 Lunar Days.

The Use of this Table.

First obferve what Hour the Shadow of the Moon fhews upon a Sun-Dial ; then find the Moon's Age, and feek the Hour correfpondent thereto in the Table, and add the Hour ihewn by the Sun-Dial thereto -, then their Sum, if it be less than 12, or else it's excefs above 12, will be the true Hour of the Night. For example ; Suppose the Hour fhewn upon the Sun-Dial by the Moon, be the 6th, and her Age be 5 or 20 Days, against either of these Numbers in the Table you will find 4, which added to 6 makes 10, and so the Hour of the Night will be 10. Again, Suppose the Moon fhews the Hour of 9 upon the Sun-Dial, when (he is 10 or 25 Days old, against 10 and 25 in the Table you will find 8, which added to 9, makes 17, from which 12 being taken, the Remainder 5 will be the true Hour fought. And so of others.

To find the Moon's Age, you must first find the Golden Number •, and this is done by adding 1 to the given Year, and dividing the Sum by 19, and the Remainder will be the Golden Number. Then you must find the Epact, by means of the Golden Number •, and this is done thus : Divide the Golden Number by 3, and each Unit remaining being called 10, will be the Epact, if the Sum be less than 30 ; but if above 30, 30 being taken from it, and the Remainder added to the Golden Number will be the Epact. The Epact being found, the Moon's Age may be had after this manner: If the Moon's Age be fough. in January, add o to the Epact •, in February, 2 ; in March, 1 ; in April, 2 ; in May, 3 ; in June, 4 ; in July, 5 ; in Augufi, 6 ; in September, 8 ; in October, 8 •, in November, 10 ; and in December, 10: and the Sum, if it be less than 30, or the Excefs above 30, added to the Day of the given Month (rejecting 30 if need be) will be the Moon's Age that Day. For example, To find the Moon's Age the 14th Day of March, in the Year 171 6, (O. S.) the Golden Number is 7, and the Epact 17 ; therefore adding 1 for March to 17, and the Sum will be 18 ; and if to this 18 be added 14 for the Day of the Month, the Sum will be 32, from which 30 being taken, and the Remainder 2 will be the Moon's Age. Note, This way of finding the Moon's Age is not so exact as we have it by the Ephemeris. Likewise ob- ferve, that vertical Moon-Dials may be made in the manner as the horizontal ones are, but the Divisions of 30 Parts upon equinoctial Dials must be equal, and the moveable Circle divided into 24 equal Parts, cifc.

The Construction of a Noclurnal or Star- Dial.

The 13th Figure fhews the Difpofition of the chief Stars compofing the Conftellation of Urfa Major, and Urfa Minor, about the Pole and the Pole- Star.

The Nocturnal we are going to mention, is made by the Confideration of the diurnal Mo- tion, that the two Stars of Urfa Major, called his Guards, or the bright Star of Urfa Minor, make about the Pole, or the Pole Star, which at prefent is but about 2 Deg. distant from the North Pole.

Now to conftruct this Instrument, you must first know the right Afcenfion of the said Stars, or in what Days of the Year they are found in the fame Hour Circle as the Sun is. This may be found, by Calculation, on a Globe, or a Celeftial Planifphere, by placing the Star in queftion under the Meridian, and examining what Degree of the Ecliptick will be found at the fame time under the Meridian. By this Method you will find that the

bright



Chap. 7. of Sun-Dials. 2,53

bright Star or Guard of the Little Bear, was found twice in one Year with the Sun under the Meridian, viz. in the Year 1715, once the 8th of May, (N. S.) above the Pole, and again the 8th of November below the Pole. Therefore in the said two Days of the Year, the abovementioned Star will be in all the Hour-Circles at the fame Time as the Sun is ; and confequently will fhew the fame Hour. You will find also, that the two Guards of Urfa Major were found two other Days of the Year under the fame Meridian or Hour- Circle as the Sun, viz. the first Day of September below the Pole, and the first Day of March above it. And in these two Days the said Stars will fhew the fame Hours as the Sun does •, but because the fixed Stars return to the Meridian every Day about r Deg. fooner than the Sun, or four Minutes of an Hour, which is two Hours per Month, it is this, which is to be observed for having the Hour of the Sun, which is the Meafure of our Days.

Thefe things being premifed, it will not be difficult to make a Nocturnal or Star-Dial, in the following manner :

The Instrument is compofed of two circular Plates applied on each other ; the greater of Fig- H« which, having a Handle for holding up the Instrument when using, is about two Inches and a half in Diameter, and is divided into twelve Parts for the twelve Months of the Year, and each Month divided into every 5th Day ; so that the middle of the Handle exactly anfwers to the Day of the Year wherein that Star which is used has the fame right Afcenfion as the Sun has. If, for example, This Instrument be made for the two Guards of Urfa Major, the first Day of September muff, be against the middle of the Handle; and if it be made for the bright Star of Urfa Minor, the 8th Day of November must be against the middle of the Handle. Therefore if you will have the Instrument ferve for both these Stars, the Handle must be made moveable about the said circular Plate, that so it may be fixed according to neceffity •, and this is eafy to do by means of two little Screws.

This being done, the upper lefTer Circle must be divided into 24 equal Parts, or twice 12 Hours, for the 24 Hours of the Day, and each Hour into Quarters, according to the Order appearing in the Figure. Thefe 24 Hours are distinguished by a like Number of Teeth, whereof thole whereat the Hours of 12 are marked are longer than the others, that so the Hours may be counted in the Night without a Light.

In the Center of the two circular Plates is adjufted a long Index A, moveable about the fame upon the upper Plate. Thefe three Pieces, viz. the two Circles and the Index, are joined together by means of a headed Rivet, and pierced fo, that there is a round Hole thro' the Center about two Inches diameter, for eafy feeing the Pole-Star thro' it. Note, The Mo- tions of the upper-Plate and Index ought to be pretty ftiff, that so they may remain where they are placed when the Instrument is using.

The Use of this Instrument.

Turn the upper circular Plate 'till the longeft Tooth whereat is marked 12 be against the Day of the Month on the under Plate ; then bringing the Instrument near your Eyes, hold it up by the Handle, so that it leans neither to the Right or Left, with it's Plane as near parallel to the Equinoctial as you can ; and looking at the Pole-Star thro' the Hole in the Center of the Instrument, turn the Index about, 'till, by the Edge coming from the Center, you can fee the bright Star, or Guard of the Little Bear, if the Instrument be adapted for that Star, and that Tooth of the upper Circle that is under the Edge of the Index, is at the Hour of the Night upon the Edge of the Hour-Circle ; which may be known without a Light, by accounting the Teeth from the longeft, which is for the Hour of 12.

You must proceed in this manner for finding the Hour of the Night, when the Inftru- ment is made for the Guards of Urfa Major, which Stars are nearly in a right Line with the Pole-Star, are of the fame Magnitude, and are very useful for finding the Pole-Star.



,OOc



CHAP. VJL

Of the Conftruflion of a Water-Clock,



THIS Clock is compofed of a Metalline well foldered Cylinder, or round Box B, Fig. 15. wherein is a certain Quantity of prepared Water, and several little Cells, which com- municate with each other by Holes near the Circumference, and which let no more Water run thro' them than is neceflary for making the Cylinder defcend flowly by it's proper Weight. This Cylinder is hung to the Points A A by two fine Cords of equal Thicknefs, which are wound about the Iron Axle-Tree D D, which Axle-Tree goes thro' the exact middle of

T t t the



2,54 ^ e Construction and Uses Book VIII.

the Cylinder at right Angles to the Bases, and as it defcends (hews the Hour marked upon a vertical Plane on both sides of the Cylinder. The Diviiions on this Plane are made thus: Having wound up the Cylinder to the top of the Plane from whence you would be^in the Hour-jJivifions, let it delcend 12 Hours, reckoned by a Clock or good Sun-Dial, and note the Place where the Axle-Tree is come to at the End of that Time, and divide the Space the Axle-Tree ha3 moved thro' in 12 equal Parts, each of which fet Numbers to, for the Hours.

We make likewise Clocks of this kind, that fhew the Hour by a Hand turning about a Dial-Plate, as appears in the fame Figure. This is done by means of a Pulley four or five Inches in diameter, fattened behind the Dial-Plate on a Brass or Steel Rod, going thro' the Center thereof; one End of this Rod goes into a little Hole for fupporting it, and at the other End is fixed the Hand (hewing the Hour.

The said Hand turns by means of a Cord put about the Pulley, one end of which fup- ports the Axle-Tree at the Place H, and at the other end is hung a small Weight F ; then as the Cylinder (lowly deicends, it caufes the Pulley to turn about, and confequently the Hand, which by this means (hews the Hour.

The Circumference of the Pulley mult be equal to the Length the Axle-Tree of the Cy- linder moves thro' during twelve Hours •, and for this End you must take that Length ex- actly with a String, and then make the Circumference of the Pulley equal to the Length of the String ; and so the Pulley and Hand will go once round in twelve Hours. When the Cylinder defcends a little too fwift, and confequently the Hand moves too faft, then the Weight F must be made heavier \ and when it defcends too flow, it must be made lighter.

The Confiruftion of the Cylinder or Round Box.

Fig. 16. This Cylinder is fometimes made of beaten Silver, but commonly with Tin. The Dia-

meter of each Base thereof is about 5 Inches, and the Height 2.

The In side of this Cylinder is divided into seven little Cells (and fometimes into five), as the Figure (hews. Thefe little Cells are made by foldering seven Silver or Tin inclined Planes to each Base, and the concave Circumference of the Cylinder; each of which are about 2 Inches long, as BF, A L, EI, D H, CG. Thefe Cells have such an Inclination when they turn about, that they receive the Water thro' a little Hole in each Plane near the Circumfe- rence, and by this means let it run from one Cell to the other ; lb that as the Cylinder rolls, it defcends, and (hews the Hour upon a vertical Plane by the Extremity of the Axle-Tree, which (as we have said) goes thro' the square Hole M in the middle of the Cylinder. Note, In a Cylinder of the abovefaid bigness we ufually pour seven or eight Ounces of diftilled Water. But before the VVater be poured in, you must take great care to well folder the in- clined Planes to the Bases and Circumference. After this, the Water must be poured thro' two Holes pofited on one and the fame Diameter, equally distant from the Center M ; then these Holes must be well (topped with foldering, that so the Air may not get in, or the Water run out while the Cylinder is turning about.

You may perceive, by the Figure, that the inclined Planes within the Cylinder do not join each other, but end in G, H, I, L, F, that so when the Cylinder is winding up, the Water may run fwiftly from one Cell to the other, and the Cylinder remain at any Height one pleafes ; because that at every Motion we give it when winding up, the Water running in a great Quantity thro' the Openings, the Cylinder will prefently aflume it's Equilibrium, which would not happen if the Cells were abfolutely inclofed : for the little Holes in the inclined Planes, are not fufficient for letting the Water run thro' them so fwift as it ought, it going through them but by drops.

It is manifest, if this Cylinder was fufpended by the Center of Gravity thereof, as would happen if the Surface of the Axle- Tree mould exactly pass thro' the Center of the said Cy- linder, it would remain at Rest ; and the Caufe of it's Motion is, that it is fufpended without the Center of Gravity by the Cord's going about the Axle-Tree, which ought not to be, with regard to the. bigness of the Cylinder, and the Quantity of Water in it, but about one Line, or one Line and a half, in thickness.

From what has been said it is evident, that the Swiftnefs or Slownefs of the Motion of the Cylinder depends upon the Thicknefs of the Axle-Tree ; for the thicker the Axle-Tree is, the (lower will the Cylinder defcend, and contrariwife, because it has more or less Excentri- city, and confequently the Water will run more or less fwift from one Cell to another; by which means the Force of it's Motion will be more or less ballanced by the Weight of the Water contained in the opposite Cell.

If you have a mind to fee the Circulation of the W T ater in one of these Cylinders, you may have one made that (hall have a Glass Base ; but then it will be difficult to find a Matter that (ball make the inclined Planes (tick firm to this Glass Cafe, and this to the Circumference oi the Cylinder.

When the Cylinder is nearly descended to the Bottom of the Cords, you mud raii'e it up with your Hand, making it turn at the fame time, so that the Cords may equally roll all along the Axle-Tree, and that it be hung horizontally.

I hzvi



Chap. 8. of Sun-Dials, 255

I have hinted before, that the Water poured into the Cylinder must be diftilled, other- wife it must be often changed, because it makes a Slime about the small Holes thro' which it runs, which hinders it's running as it fhould do.

CHAP. VIII.

Of the ConflruSiion of an Instrument^ Jhewing on what Point of the Compass the Wind blows ^ without going out of ones Room.

YOU must affix to the Ceiling, Mantle-Tree, or Wall of a Room, a Circle divided into 32 equal Parts, for the 32 Points of the Compass, so that the North and South Points thereof exactly anfwer to the meridian Line, which may be eafily done by a Compass. Then there must be a Hand made moveable about the said Circle, and this Hand must be turned about by an upright Axle-Tree, which may be turned round by the least Wind blowing against the Fane at the Top thereof, above the Roof of the Houfe.

But to explain this more fully, confult Fig. 17. The Wind turning the Fane AB (which Fig. 17. ought to be of Iron), fixed to the Top of the Axle- Tree C D, turns this Axle-Tree, which is placed upright, and fuftained towards the Top by the horizontal Plane E F, which is a Piece of Iron fattened to some convenient Place for holding up the Axle-Tree. And at the Bottom of the said Axle-Tree is placed a Steel Square G H, having a shallow small Hole D nude therein for the Point of the Axle-Tree, which ought to be of tempered Steel for the Axle- Tree to ftand in, and move with the least Wind. The Pinion I K must have 8 equal Teeth for the 8 principal Winds. The Teeth of this Pinion take into the Teeth of the Wheel ML, whole Number are 16 or 32, according to the Points denoted upon the Circle YZ; and so this Wheel is turned about by the Fane, as also it's Axis P Q^, which being placed horizontally, goes thro' the Wall T at right Angles to it, as also to the Circte of Winds Y Z, fixed to the Wall. The Hand R fhewing which way the Wind blows, is fixed to the End of this Axle-Tree P Q^, and turns along with it ; and the Names of the Winds must be distinguished by Capital Letters, as on Compass Cards.

By the Difpofition of the whole Instrument it is eafy to perceive, that when the Wind turns the Fane A B, this likewise turns the Axle- Tree C D, which at the fame Time turns the Pinion I K, and the Pinion 1 K the Wheel L M, and this the Axis QJ?, and Q^P the Hand. And so you may fee which way the Wind blows, without going out of the Room.

A fljorl Defcription of the principal Tools used in making
of Mathematical Instruments.

TH E chief and most neceffary Tool is a large Vice, ferving to hold Work while it is filing, &c. It is neceffary that this Tool be well filed, that the Chops meet each other exactly, that they be cut like a File, be in good temperature, that the Screw be adjufted as it fhould be in it's Box ; and that the whole Tool be well fixed to. a Bench. There are also Hand-Vices of different bieneffes, according to the Work to be filed.

The Anvil, which ferves for hammering Work upon, ought to be very fmooth and of tempered Steel, and placed upon a great wooden Billot, so that it may not give way when it is working upon.

There are also Bench- Anvils for ftrengthening and rivetting small Work ; some of these, which are called Bee's, and ferve to make Ferrils upon, &c. have one side conical, and the other in figure of a square Pyramid.

Hand-Saws are made so as to have Branches drawing the Blades (which are of different bigneffes) ftraight by means of Screws and Nuts.

It is neceffary to have good Files. The rough ones made in Germany are the beft ; and the fmooth and baftard Files of England are very good. There are also small rough and fmooth Files, for filing Work Triangular, Square, Circular, Semi-Circular, &?f. Rafps for

fafhioning



2 z6 si Dejcriptio/i of the principal 'Tools

fafbioning of Wood ; several forts of Hammers for firaightening, fmoothing, rivetting, &e. of Work •, Tapes and Plates for making Screws.

Pincers and Knippers of several kinds. SchTars of several Sizes for cutting of Metals. Burnifhing-Sticks for polifhing Work. Steel-Drills of divers bigneiles for making of Holes thro' Work, having one end filed like a C at's Tongue, and the other fharp. Thefe Drills arc used different ways - y for some of them are placed in a drilling Leath, which is compofed of a small square Iron-Bar, and two little Poupets or Heads carrying a Pulley, wherein is placed the Drill in a square Hole going thro' it, which is turned by means of a little Cat-gut Row. Note, This Tool is placed in a Vice when it is using. Brass or Wood may be drilled alio by putting it first into the Vice, and the Drill in a Pulley. Then if the end of the Drill be put into a (hallow Cavity made in a Piece of Brass or Iron, placed against your Bread, and the Point thereof be put to the thing you would make a Hole thro' ; by turning the Drill fwiftly about by means of the Bow, and at the fame time prefiing it with your Bread: against the thing to be drilled, you will foon make a Hole thro' it.

The Leath is also of great use ; the mod fimple of them is made of two Brass or Tron Poupets or Heads Aiding along a square Iron-Bar, and a Support which also Aides alono- the said Bar, upon which the Tools are laid when they are using. At the Top of the Poupets are two Screws of tempered Steel going thro' them, which are fixed by means of Nuts. When this Leath is to be used, it muff, be placed in a Vice, and the thing to be turned, be- tween the two Points of the Screws j and if you have a mind to turn with your Hand, you must use a Cat-gut Bow.

Great Leaths for turning with one's Foot are compofed of two wooden Poupets, and two wooden side Beams, of a Length and Breadth proportional to the bigness of the Leath, which are fuftained by two Pieces of Wood called the Feet of the Leath. Thefe side Beams are placed level, about two or three Inches distant from each other, according to the bigness of the Poupets put between them, and the ends of them are adjufled upon the Feet, which are about four Foot high, and they are likewise joined underneath by two or three crofs pieces of Wood, for rendering the Machine more ftable and solid.

The Poupets, which are two pieces of Wood of equal Length and Thicknefs, have one part of each cut so as to go in between the side Beams •, and the other part, being the Head, is cut square, and solidly pofited upon the side Beams •, and that they may be very firm, there are Clefts of Wood drove with a Mallet into Mortice- Holes at the Bottom of the Pou- pets underneath the side Beams.

In the Head of each Poupet is a tempered fteel Point strongly inclofed in the Wood -, so that when these two Points are brought to each other, they may exactly touch. There is Jikewife a wooden Bar going all along, which is fuftained by the Arms of the Poupets, which may be lengthened and fhortened at pleafure ; and this ferves as a Rest for the Tools, when they are using.

Againft the Ceiling, over the Leath, is fixed an Elastick wooden Rod, having at the End thereof a Cord fattened, which comes down to the Ground, and is fixed to the End of a piece of Wood, called the Treader.

Now when you have a mind to work, the Cord must be put about the Piece to be turned, or about a Mandril adjufted to it ; and prefiing your Foot upon the Treader, you will turn the Work by means of the Rod which fprings ; then with proper Tools laid upon the Sup- port, and against the Piece which is turning, you must first fafhion it with coarfe Tools, and finifh it with fine ones.

Because all Work cannot be turned between two Points, one of the Poupets must be taken away, and inftead thereof must be placed a Piece of Wood furnifhed with Iron, adjufted be- tween the side Beams as the Poupets are, and inftead of having a Steel Point has a very- round Hole therein, in which goes the Colet of an Iron-Arbor, whose other End is fuftained by the Steel Point of the other Poupet.

The said Arbor is fifteen or eighteen Inches long, and is compofed thus : at the End, which is fupported against the aforsaid Piece of Wood, is a Screw of a very large Thread made round the Arbor, upon which are fcrewed on divers Brass Boxes, in which are held fad the Pieces of Wood, which ferve to place the several Works to be turned. And at the other End of the said Arbor are made several Threads of Screws of different bigneffes, that so Screws may be turned.

Near the middle of the said Arbor, is placed a Mandril or wooden Pulley, about which goes a Cord. There may be several other Pieces adjufted on this Arbor, for turning irregular Fi- gures, as Ovals, Hearts, Rofes, wreathed Pillars, csV. All these Pieces are filed into the Figures that one would have them make, and have square Holes in the middle of them, which are adjufted to a Square near the End of the Arbor.

When the Pieces are disposed on the Arbor, the pointed End thereof is placed in a little Hole in the Steel Point of the Poupet, and the other End in the abovefaiu wooden Piece (placed inftead of a second Poupet), which is made fo, that there are two Pieces which fpring, and pufh the Figure backwards and forwards, and by this means move the Arbor backwards and forwards, more or less. according to the Figure ; and this is the

used in making of Mathematical Infiruments* 257

Caufe that the Tool gives the proper Figure to the Work, which moves to it, or recedes from it, according to the Motion of the Arbor ; for the Tool must always be held faft upon the Support. But fmce these kinds of Figures are feldom used for Mathematical Instruments, I ihall fay no more as to this way of turning.

The principal Use of the said Arbor, ferves for turning of Rings, making of Grooves in Compasses, and other the like things. And -this may be done, in placing the Pieces to be turned upon the Wood belonging to the Boxes (of which we have already lpoken), which are adj lifted on the Leath for receiving the said Pieces. Note, The Rests or Supports of the Tools are likewise placed according as the Work requires ; some before, and some side- ways.

Male and Female Screws are formed, by putting the proper Thread on the Arbor into a piece of Wood hollowed into a Screw of the fame Thread, which is placed at the Poupet carrying the End of the Arbor. And the other End of the Arbor, where is a Colet of the fame Thicknefs, is put exactly into the Hole of the abovementioned piece of Wood •, then if the Treader be put in motion by your Foot, the Work will move backwards and forwards, [o as that you may form a Screw or a Nut, with toothed Tools made on purpofe, according to the Thitads marked upon the Arbor. Note, For turning of Wood, Googes, Chiffels, &V. are used. But for Brass and other Metals, fmaller Tools of tempered Steel must be used, as Graving-Tools, cjJV.

Thus have I here, and in the Body of this Work, given a fliort Account of the Tools commonly used in making of Mathematical Instruments. The others may be eafily fupplied according to Neceffity. But since they are ufually made by those that use them, I shall here (hew how to chufe the beft Metal for thtir Conftruction.

The beft Steel comes from Germany. This ought to be without Flaws, Black- Veins, or Iron-Furrows. You may know this by breaking of it, and feeing whether the Grain be very fine and equal.

In forging of Tools, or any thing else of Steel, you must take care of over-heating them, and perform it as foon as poffible •, for the longer they are hot, the more will they be fpoiled.

When the Tools are forged and filed, and you have a mind to temper them, you must heat them led-hot 'till their Colour be fomething redder than a Cherry, and then they must be tempered in Spring or "Well- Water : the colder the Water is, the better. And when they are cold, they must be taken out of the Water, and laid prefently upon a Piece of hot Iron, so long, 'till the Colour they have contracted by tempering is loft, and they become yellow- ifh ; and then they must be thrown again into the Water, without flaying 'till they become blue, because they will lofe their Force.

To temper Bundles of Files, or other Pisces of Iron, you must take Chimney-Soot, the 1 oldeft and grofTeft being the beft, and having finely powdered it, temper it with Pifs and Vinegar, putting a little melted Salt therein, until the whole be as a liquid Pafte. The Soot being tempered, the Tools must be covered over with it, and this covered with Earth, and the whole Bundle thrown into a strong Charcoal-fire ; and when it is become fomething red- der than a Cherry, it must be taken out and thrown into a Vessel full of very cold Water, and then the Files will be fufficiently hard.

We have already fhewed the manner of foldering Brass or Silver to each other ; and We would have it here observed, that Iron may be foldered to Iron, by putting thin Brass upon the Piece to be foldered, and the Powder of Borax, and then covering it all round with Charcoal, and heating it until we perceive the Brass melts and runs.

Note, Brass cannot be hammered when it is hot, for it will break •, but Copper is ham- mered cold or hot : but this is feldom used in making of Mathematical Instruments, because Brass is finer and more convenient. Brass is made with red Copper and Calamin, which is a Stone giving a yellow Tincture to the Metal, and is found in the Country of Liege, and in France.

Gold and Silver may be hammered cold or hot, and may be melted also nearly as Brass is ; and Mathematical Instruments are made with Gold and Silver in the fame manner as with Brass.

The End of the Tranjlation.
