BOOK IV.

Of the ConflruBion and Uses of Mathematical Instruments for me a faring and laying out of Land, taking of Plots , Heights j and Diflances ; the most ufaal of which, are Staffs, Lines, the Toife or Fathom, the Chain, Sur- veying-Croffes or Squares, Recipient-Angles or Mea- fare-Angles, Theodolites, the Quadrant, the Semi- circle, and the Compass.

one End, upon which are put pointed Caps of Iron, to make them go eafier into the Ground. There are fometimes longer ones made, in or- der to be feen at a great distance.

Lines ought to be of good Packthread, or Whipcord, well twitted, and of a convenient Thicknefs, that they may not eafily ftretch.

The Toife, or Fathom, is a round Staff 6 Foot long, divided into Feet by little Rings, or Brass Pins ; the last Foot being divided into \i Inches, likewise distinguished by little Brass Pins.

There are Toifes that may be taken into 2, 3, or 4 Pieces, by means of Ferils and Brass Screws at the End of each Piece.

There are also two Brass or Steel Ferils, put upon each End of the Toife, to preferve it's Length.

The Chain is compofed of several Pieces of thick Iron or Brass Wire, bent at the Ends, each of which is a Foot long, and are joined together with little Rings.

Chains are commonly a Perch, or else 4 or 5 Toifes in Length, distinguished by a great Ring from Toife to Toife. Thefe fort of Chains are very commodious, because they will not entangle themfelves, as thofc will that are made with little Iron Rings.

In the Year 1668, there was placed a new Toife for a Standard, at the Foot of the Stairs of the Grand Chatelet at Paris y for having recourfe to in cafe of Keed.

We have said that a Toife in Length contains 6 Feet, and each Foot 12 Inches. A square Toife contains 36 square Feet, and a square Foot 144 Inches ; because 6 times 6 is 36, arid 12 times 12 is 144.

A Cubick Toife contains 216 Cubick Feet, and a Cubick Foot 1728 Cubick Inches • be- caufe the Cube of 6 is 216, and the Cube of 12 is 1728.

The Length of a Perch is not determined.

That of Paris is 3 Toifes, or 18 Feet j in other Countries it is 20, 22, and 24 Feet.

The Perch, used in France, to measure Waters and FoRests, according to the last Regula- tion, is 22 Feet long, and confequently a square Perch is 484 square Feet.

The Arpent is a fuperficial Meafure, used to measure Ground or Woods.

The Arpentof Paris, and the adjacent Parts, contains 100 square Perches, or 900 Toifes; the Side of which must confequently be 10 Perches, or 30 Toifes.

A League is a Meafure for High- ways, or great Distances ; it's Length is not determined, being different in different Countries.

It is reckoned from the Gate of Paris, nigh the Grand Chatekt, to the Gate of the Church of St Dennis, 2 Leagues, each of which is 2200 Toifes.

The Gentlemen of the Academy of Sciences have found, that a Degree of a great Circle of the Earth contains 57060 Toifes ; and giving 25 Leagues to a Degree, each League will contain 2282 Toifes.

A Sea-League is greater, for there goes but 20 to make a Degree j therefore it contains about 3000 Toiles.

The Italians reckon by Miles, each of which contains 1000 Geometrical Paces.

A Geometrical Pace is five of the antient Feet, one of which the antient Roman Palm is three quarters, which may be efteemed about 11 of our Inches; and confequently an Italian Mile contains ab/vjt 769 of our Toifes.

The Germans also reckon by the Mile, but they are much greater than the Italian Miles 1 for one or them contains 3626 Toifes.

They count by Leagues in Spain, one of which contains 2863 Toifes, 20 of which exa&ly make one 7 erreilrial Degree, ' '

The fame may be laid of the Englijh and Butch Leagues.

U S E I. To draw a right Line thro' two Points given upon the Ground, and produce it

to any required Length.

Plant a Staff upon each of the given Points, very upright, and having drained a Line from one Staff to the other ; by that Line, as a Guide, draw a Line upon the Ground.

That right Line may be continued by planting a third Staff, lb that by placing the Eye to the Edge of the first, the Edges of the two others may be but juft feen j and again, the Line may be continued, by taking that Staff, which was the first, and placing it as a third, fcV.

USE II. To measure a right Line upon the Ground.

When a long Line upon the Ground is to be measured, Precaution must be used that we

do not m.ftake and be obliged to begin again. To do which, two Men must each of

them have a Toife ; the first having laid down his, must not lift it up, 'till the second

has placed ms at the End of the first Man's Toife. The first Man having lifted up his Toife,

Tr A «° Unt *' , a r d Wl ? en he haS a S ain laid his down t0 the End of the second Man's the second Man must lift up his, and count 2. In thus continuing on to the End, and in or- der to lay the 1 oifes in a right Line, there must be placed two Staffs, at a Distance before

d Tei to ofk at ; re is but one ' the Toifes cannot be so m,1 y laid in a r, S ht Line

To fpare Time and Pains you ought to have a Chain of 30 Feet, or 5 Toifes long, with a Ring at each End carried by two Men, the first of which carries several Staffs. When the Uiain is well extended on the right Line to be measured, the foremost Man must place a Staff

for the wh ? ll ' V°n - G Knd n tHat thC hinder Ma " "^ kn0W where the Chai " «"kd J

tor the whole Matter confifts in well counting, and exactly measuring.

USE III. From a Point given in a right Line, to raife a Perpendicular. Let the given Line be A B, and the given Point C.

fron a tt\? v a f r n ^ ? Ta C ' u nd tW £ others &gt; as E &gt; D » in the fame Line, equally distant FitJ , • W into uv ^ '' p" faften x, the 7° Ends ° f a Line to the two Staves E . D, and fold the F * '" Staff a nd he LTne F T ■?, I '' aftc ™ rds , ftretch th e Line tight, and at the Point F plant a

ocan and the Line F C will be perpendicular to A B.

theVe the^aff ? eaf ^t 4 *?'' ° r 4 T ° ifeS ' fr0m the Point C &gt; ™ the Line A B, and plant Fig . 2 feJr T U a l n C ^T , Con u tain T in g 8 Feet &gt; or 8 Toifes (according as the forme! are 8 then Ltch th/ T W Tu^ °K the Line t0 the StafF C &gt; and the &lt;*& &lt;° the Staff G ,

a Staff in H lYX' T ^ ? ° f those Parts be next to the Point C &gt; and 5 next to C ; plan a fctart in H, and the Line H C will be perpendicular to A B. *

U S E IV. From a given Point without a Line, to draw a Perpendicular.

Let the given Line be A B, and the Point F

Halm (Chief 1 i'Vunn^f 7° fqUal P u rtS ' and fix the MiddIe t0 the StaffF J ftrctch the tw ° Fig. 3. naives (which I fu Ppo f e long enough) to the Line A Bj then plant two Staffs, namely, one 8 3 to each End of your Line* and divide their Di (lance into two equal Parts, which may be done by folding a Line as long as the Distance A B j plant a Staff in the middle C, and the Line CF will be perpendicular to the Line AB.

USE V. To draw a Line parallel to another ', at a given Bijlance from it.

fig. 4. Let the given Line be A B, and it is required to draw a Line parallel to it at the Distance of 4 Toifes.

Raife (by Use 3.) two Perpendiculars, each of 4 Toifes, upon the Points A, B-, and upon the Points C, D plant two Staffs ; by which draw the Line C D, which will be parallel to AB.

X3 S E VI. To make an Angle on the Ground, at the End of a Linei equal to an Angle given*

Fig. 5. Let A B C be the given Angle (which suppose is drawn upon Paper).

About the Point B, as a Center* defcribe uport the Paper the Arc A C, and draw the right Line A C, which will be the Chord of the said Arc. Meafure with a Scale, or the Line of equal Parts of the Sector, the Length of one of the equal Legs A B, or B C of the said Angle; likewise measure, with the fame Scale, the Length of the Chord AC ; which, fof Example, suppose 36 of those equal Parts, whereof the Leg AB contains 30.

Now let there be upon the Ground a right Line, as B C, to which it is required to draw another Line FB, making an Angle with BC equal to the proposed one. Plant a Staff in the Point B, and having measured 30 Feet, or 5 Toifes, on the Line B C, there plant a Staff, as D ; then take two Lines, one of 30 Feet long, which faften to the Staff B, and the other 36 Feet, which likewise faften to the Staff D : Draw the Lines tight, and make their Ends meet in the Point F, where again plant a Staff, from which draw the Line F B ; which will form, at the Point B, the Angle F B C equal to the proposed one ABC.

USE VII. To draw upon Paper an Angle, equal to a given one upon the Ground.

fig. j. This Problem is the Converfe of the former.

Let the given Angle upon the Ground be F B C •, measure 30 Feet, or 5 Toifes, from B towards C, at the End of which plant the Staff D ; measure likewise 30 Feet from B towards F, and there plant another Staff; measure also the Distance of the Staffs F, D, which fup- pofe will be 36 Feet (as in Use VI.).

Now let B C be a Line upon the Paper ; then about the Point B, as a Center, and with a Length of 30 equal Parts (taken from a Scale) defcribe the Arc A C ; and take 36 of the fame Parts, and lay them off from the Point C, upon the Arc C A, and a Line drawn from B to A will make, with the Line B C, the Angle required.

If, moreover, the Quantity of the aforsaid Angle be defired, it will be' found, by the Protractor, fomething less than 64 Degrees.

The Quantity of Angles (whose Chords are known), in Degrees and Minutes, may more exa&lt;ftly be known by the following Table, which is calculated for Angles, always contained under equal Sides of 30 Feet each.

The Use of the said Table is very eafy for finding the Quantity of any Plane Angles upon the Ground : for measure 30 Feet upon each of the Lines forming an Angle, and plant a Staff at the End of 30 Feet upon each Line ; then measure the Distance between the two Staffs, which suppose to be 36 Feet (as in the preceding Example), look in the Table in the Column of Bases of 36 Feet, and you will find over against it, in the Column of Angles, 63 Degrees, 44 Minutes, the Quantity of the said Angle.

Note, That in the Columns of Bases are only fet down every 2 Inches, and the Feet from 1 to 60. By means of this Table may be eafily and exactly found the Opening and Quantity of any Angle •, for suppose your Base be in Length 50 Feet, 3 Inches, and the other 2 Sides each 30 Feet, which they must always be. Seek 50 Feet, 2 Inches, in the Column of Bases ; and against it you will find, in the Column of Angles, 113 Deg. 28 Min. whence by making due Proportion with the Inches and Minutes, the Quantity of the Angle fought will be 113 Deg. 44 Min. This Table, together with a well divided Brass Scale, may be used in meafur- ing or laying off Angles upon Paper, with as much Exactnefs as Lines will do them upon the Ground ; because the Sides of equi-angled Triangles are proportional to each other.

This Method of measuring plane Angles, may likewise ferve to make Designs of Fortifica- tion, both regular and irregular, to find the Quantities of Angles, as well of Baftions as of the Polygon, formed by the Concourfe of the Lines of the Bases, or exterior Sides, either up- on Paper or the Ground.

To draw Angles by this Table, feek for the Degrees and Minutes you defign an Angle to confift of, which, for Example, suppose 54 Deg. 34 Min. and against them, in the Column of Bases, is the Number of Feet and Inches correfponding thereto, viz. 27 Feet, 6 Inches ; which is the Length of the Base of the Angle, each of the other Sides of which is 30 Feet, and so of others.

I o 2 The ConjiruEiion and Uses Book IV,

USE VIII. To take the Plane, or Plot of a Place within it.

F,-g. 6. Let the Place whose Plan is required, be A B C D E.

First, make a Figure upon your Paper, fomething like the Plan to be taken, and after hav- ing measured with a Toife the Sides A B, B C, C D, D E, and E A, write the Lengths found upon each of their correfponding Lines on the Paper ; then inftead of measuring the Angles made by the Sides, measure the Diagonals AD, BD, which write down in your Book, and the Figure will be reduced into three Triangles, whose Sides are all known, because they have been actually measured. Then the Figure must be drawn neat in your Book by means of a Scale of equal Parts.

Note, Of all the Ways to take the Planes of Places, that of taking it within is the beft.

USE IX. To take the Plot of any Place (as a Wood, or marfhy Ground) by measuring round about it.

jr,V - First draw a rough Sketch of the Figure in your Field-Book : if it takes not too much time

in going round the Place •, then measure with a Toife, or Chain, all the Sides encompassing the Figure proposed, and fet the Numbers found upon each correfpondent Line, in your Book •, but for the Angles, you must measure them as follows.

To measure, for Example, the Angle E F G, produce the Side E F, 5 Toifes, and plant a Staff at the End K •, produce also the Side G F, the Length of 5 Toifes, and plant a Staff at the End L. Meafure the Distance LK, and supposing it 6 Toifes, 4 Feet, that is 40 Feet, fet it down upon the Line L K in your Book, by which means the three Sides of the Ifofceles Triangle L F K will be had -, and confequently the Angle LFK, may be known by the afore- mentioned Table, or otherwise. Now the aforsaid Angle is equal to it's opposite one E FG, and if you feek 40 Feet in the Column of Bases, the Angle will be found 83 Deg. 37 Min.

In the fame manner may the Angle F G H, or any other of the proposed Figure, be mea- fured : or else thus, Produce the Side HG, the Length of 5 Toifes, to N, where plant a Staff; make likewile G M, 5 Toifes. Meafure the Distance M N, which suppose, for Ex- ample, 6 Toifes, 2 Feet, or 38 Feet, which write upon the Line M N in your Book.

This Number fought in the Column of Bases, correfponds to 78 Deg. 35 Min. for the txterior Angle M G N, whose Complement 101 Deg. 25 Min. is the Quantity of the Angle FGH.

Then the Figure in your Field-Book must be drawn neat by means of a Scale of equal Parts, as well to denote the Lengths of the Sides, as the Bases of all the Angles, which may exactly be had without the Trouble of taking their Quantities in Degrees and Minutes.

U S E X. To draw any regular Polygon upon a given Line on the Ground.

Fig. 8. Let, for Example, the given Line be A B, upon which it is required to make an equilateral Triangle.

Meafure 30 Feet upon the Line A B, from A to D, where plant a Staff: then take 2 Lines, each 30 Feet long, one of which faften to the Staff D, and the other to the Staff A, and ftretch them 'till their Ends join in the Point C, where plant another Staff.

Make the fame Operation at the other End of the given Line, and produce the Lines AC, and B F, 'till they meet in the Point E, and form the equilateral Triangle A E B required. Fig. 9. If a Square be to be made upon the given Line A B, raife upon each End A and B, a

Perpendicular (by USE HI.).

Then make each of those Perpendiculars equal to the Line given, plant Staffs at their Ends C and D, and draw the Line CD, which will compleat the Square proposed. Fig. 10. If a Pentagon is required to be drawn upon the given Line A B :

You will find that the Angles formed by the Sides of a Pentagon, are each 108 Degrees ; (as before has been said, in USE 3. of the Protractor, and in the third Section, concerning the Line of Polygons of the Sector) ; therefore feek for, in the Table of Plane Angles, the Number that anfwers to 108 Degrees, or nighly approaches it, and you will find 48 Feet, and fomething above 6 Inches : for that Number anfwers to 107 Deg. 52 Min. which is leffer by 8 Min. than 108 Degrees •, whence 48 Feet, 6 i Inches, may be taken for the aforsaid Base.

Now measure upon the given Line, from the Point A towards B, 30 Feet, and plant a Staff in the Point C, where the said Length terminates : then take 2 Lines, one 30 Feet, the End of which faften to the Staff A ; and the other 48 Feet, 6 4 Inches, which likewise faften to the Staff C j (train the Lines equally, 'till they join in the Point E, where plant a Staff, and by that means will be had an Angle of 108 Degrees: then produce the Line A E, 'till it be equal to A B ;• make the fame Operation at the End B of the given Line, by which means three Sides AB, AG, B D, of the required Pentagon will be had, which afterwards may be compleated by the fame Method.

If the Pentagon be not too big, it may be compleated by means of 2 Lines, each equal to the given Side, one faftened to the Staff D, and the other to the Staff G ; for if they are equally (trained, they will form the two other Sides of the Polygon, by meeting in the Point H.

Any other regular or irregular Polygon, by the fame Method, may be made upon the Ground, by feeking in the before-mentioned Table, the Number of Feet and Inches anfwer- ing to the Angle of the Polygon to be drawn.

USE XI. To find the Dijlance of two Objects, inaccejfible in refpecl of each other.

The Distance, for Example, from the Tower A, to the Windmill B, is required. Fig. ii;

Plant the Staff C in some Place from whence it may be eafy to measure the Distance in a right Line from it to the Places A and B.

Meafure thcfe Distances exactly, as for Example, from C to A* which suppose 54 Toifes ; then produce the Line A C to D, likewise 54 Toifes : measure also the Line B C, which fup- pofe 37 Toifes, and produce it to E, so that C E may be 37 Toifes likewise j by which means the Triangle CDE, will be formed equal and similar to the Triangle ABC, and confe- quently the Distance D E will be equal to the proposed inaccefilble Distance from B to A.

USE XII. To find the Dijlance of two Objetls, one of which is inaccejfible.

Let it be proposed, for Example, to find the Breadth A B of a River : being at one of it*s Tig. it. Sides A, plant there a Staff AC, 4 or 5 Feet high, and very upright •, make a Slit towards the Top of the Staff, in which put a very ftraight Piece of Steel or Brass (that may flide up and down), about 3 Inches long, which mull be flipped up or down, 'till the Point B, on the other Side of the River be feen along it •, afterwards turn the Staff, and look along (keeping the aforsaid Piece of Brass in the fame Pofition) the Side of the River upon level Ground* 'till you fee the Point D, where the vifual Rays terminate. The Distance AD measured with a Chain, will give the Breadth of the River, to which it is equal.

This Propofition, as fimple as it is, may ferve to know what Length Timber must be of* to make Bridges over Ditches or Rivers.

USE XIII. To draw upon the Ground a right Line from the Point A, to the Point Bj hi' tween which there is a Building, or other Obftacle, that hinders the continuing of it.

Find, upon very level Ground, a third Point, as C, from which you may fee Staffs planted Fig. 13. in the Points A and B ; then measure exactly the Distance from C to A, and from C to B : this being done, take the Half, Third, or any other Part of each of those Lines, whereat plant Staffs, as in D bifecting C B, and in E bifecting C A ; then draw a right Line from D to E, which produce as is neceffary, and draw a Parallel to it pafling by the Points A and B, by means of Staffs planted betweent the Point A and the Houfe, as also between the Houfe and the Point B, which will fhew the Direction from A to B.

USE XIV. // is required to cut a Pajfage thro" a Hill from the Point A to B.

Draw on one Side of the Hill a right Line, as DC, and on the other Side another right Fig. 14; Line, as E T, parallel to C D ; then let fall from the Point A, to the Line C D, the Perpen- dicular A G ; and in some other Point beyond the Hill, draw another Perpendicular, as CH* equal to A G.

Again ; from the Point B, let fall upon the Line E F the Perpendicular B I ; and from fome other Point beyond the Hill, draw another Perpendicular to the fame Line, as L M, equal to B I, so that the Distance I L, may be equal to C G •, then draw a right Line from the Staff H, to the Staff M (and produce it as far as is neceffary), which will be parallel to 'the Paifage to be made from A to B ; therefore any Number of Staffs may be planted at an equal Distance to that Parallel H M on both Sides the Hill, as O, P, Q^ which will ferve as a Guide to pierce the Hill thro' from A to B.

I (hall again mention the Use of the aforsaid Instruments, in the little Treatifc of Fortifi- cation, hereafter laid down.

CHAP. II.

Of the Defer tption and Use of the Survey ing-Cr of s.

THE Surveying-Crofs is a Brass Circle of a good Thicknefs, and 4, 5, or 6 Inches Fig. 15. Diameter. It is divided into 4 equal Parts, by two Lines cutting one another at right Angles in the Center. At the four Ends of these Lines, and in the Middle of the Limb, there are fixed four strong Sights well riveted in square Holes, and very perpendicularly flit over the aforsaid Lines, having Holes below each Slit, for better difcovering of distant Ob- jects : the Circle is hollowed to render it more light.

Fig. 1 6. Underneath, and at the Center of the Instrument, there ought to be fcrewed on a Ferrel,

ferving to fuftain the Crofs upon it's Staff of 4 or 5 Feet long, according to the Height of the Obferver's Eye. This Staff must be furnifhed with an Iron Point, to go into the Ground

the better.

All the Exactnefs of this Instrument confifts in having it's Sights well flit at right Angles, which may be known by looking at an Object thro' two Sights, and another Object thro' two other Sights : then the Crofs must be exactly turned upon it's Staff, and you must look at the fame Objects through the opposite Sights ; if they are very exactly in the Direction of the Slits, it is a fign the Instrument is very juft.

To avoid breaking or damaging the Crofs, the Staff must first be put in the Ground, and when it is well fixed, the Crofs must be fcrewed upon it.

Thefe kinds of Croftes fometimes are made with eight Sights, in the fame manner as the aforsaid one, and ferve to take Angles of 45 Degrees ; as alio for "Gardeners to plant Rows of Trees by.

U S E I. To take the Plot and Area of a Field within it.

Fig. iy. Let the Field proposed be A BCD E, and having placed at all the Angles Staffs, or Poles

very upright, exactly measure the Line AC (in the manner we have already laid down, or any other at pleafure) then make a Memorial, or rough Draught, fomewhat reprefenting the Field proposed, on which write all the Dimenfions of the Parts of the Line AC, and ot Per- pendiculars drawn from the Angles to the Line A C. If, for Example, you begin from the Staff A, find the Point F in the Line AC, upon which the Perpendicular EF falls: then measure the Lines A F and E F, and fet down their Lengths upon their correfpondent Lines in your Memorial.

Now to find the Point F, plant several Staffs at pleafure in the Line AC; as also the Foot of your Crofs in the fame Line, in such a manner that you may difcover thro' two opposite Sights, two of those Staffs, and thro' the other two Sights (which make right Angles with the two first ones), you may fee the Staff E. But if in this Station the Staff E cannot be feen, remove the Instrument backwards or forwards, 'till the Lines A F, E F, make a right Angle in the Point F,- by which means the Plot of the Triangle A F E will be had.

In the fame manner may the Point H be found, where the Perpendicular DH falls, whose Length, together with that of G F, must be fet down in your Memorial, in order to have the Plot of the Trapezium E F H D. Again, Meafure H C making a right Angle with H D, and the Plot of the Triangle DH C will be had.

Having likewise measured the whole Line A C, there is no more to do but find the Point G, where the Perpendicular B G falls ; and proceeding as before, the Plot of the Triangle ABC may be had, and confequently the Plot of the whole Field A B C D E. The Area of the Field will likewise be had, by adding the Triangles and Trapeziums together, which may eafily be done by the Rules of Planometry, in the following manner :

Suppose, for Example, A F to be 7 Toifes, and the Perpendicular E F 10 ; multiply 7 by 10, and the Product is 70, half of which is 35, the Area of the Triangle AFE.

If moreover the Line FH be 14 Toifes, and the Perpendicular HD 12, add 12 to 10 (which is the Perpendicular F E), the Sum will be 22, half of which being 1 1, multiplied by 14, will give 154 square Toifes, for the Area of the Trapezium E F H D •, and if the Line H C is 8 Toifes, multiplying 8 by 12, the Product is 96, whose half 48, will be the Area of the Triangle C H D.

The whole Line AC is 29 Toifes, and the Perpendicular BG 10; whence the Product: is 290, whose half 145, is the Area of the Triangle ABC. Finally, adding together 35, 154, 48, and 145, the Sum 382, will be the Number of square Toifes contained in the Field ABCDE.

USE II. To take the Plane of a Wood, Morafs^ &c. in which it is not eafy to enter.

Fig. 18. Let the Morafs E F G H I be proposed: Set up Staves at all the Angles, so made as to

include the Morafs within a Rectangle, which measure •, then fubftract the Triangles and Trapezia included between the Sides of the Morafs, and the Sides of the Rectangle, from the said Rectangle, and the Area of the proposed Morafs will be had.

If, for Example, you begin at the Staff E, produce by help of the Crofs the Line E F, as far as is neceffary, to which, from the Point G, let fall the Perpendicular GK; fet up a Staff at K, and produce KG to L, to which, from the Point H, draw the Perpendicular L H, which likewise produce as far as is neceffary: afterwards draw from the Staff E, to the Line HL, produced, the Perpendicular E M : whence the Rectangle E MLK will be had, whose Sides must be measured with a Chain or Toife.

Suppose, for Example, the Line E K, or it's Parallel M L (which ought to be equal to it) is 25 Toifes, and the Line E M, or it's Parallel, 10 Toifes ; multiplying these two Numbers by one another, there will arife 350 square Toifes for the Area of the Rectangle E M L K : but if F K be 5 Toifes, and GK 4, by multiplying 4 by 5, the Product is 20, whose half 10 Toifes, is the Area of the Triangle FKG. The Line GL, being 6 Toifes, and H L 4, the Product of 4 by 6 is 24, whose half 12 is the Area of the Triangle G L H,

Afterwards a Point must be found in the Line HM, where a Perpendicular drawn from the Staff 1 falls, which forms a Triangle and a Trapezium ; so that if the Distance H N be 24 Toifes, and the Perpendicular N I 4 Toifes, 24 by 4 gives 96, whose half 48, is the Area of the Triangle H N I. Laftly, N M being 7 Toifes, M E 10, and it's Parallel N I 4 Toifes, adding 10 to 4, the Sum will be 14, whose half 7, multiplied by 7, produces 49 for the Area of the°Trapezium E M N I.

Therefore adding together the Areas of the three Triangles, and that of the Trapezium, there will be had 119 Toifes, which taken from 350, the Area of the Rectangle, and there remains 231, the Area of the proposed Morafs. The fame may be done with any other Figure. Thefe two Uses are enough to fhew how Surveyors use their Instruments for mea- funng and taking the Plot of any Piece of Ground.

CHAP. III.

Of the ConfiruEiion and Uses of divers Instruments to take Angles.

THERE are several Sorts of Instruments to take Angles, but the belt and mod in ufe, are those whose Defcription we are now going to give.

The Instrument Aj is compofed of two Rules very equal in breadth, for the Insides of FJ g- A. them must be parallel to their Outsides ; their Breadth is about an Inch, and their Length a Foot or more. Those two Rulers are equally rounded at the Top, and faftened to one an- other by means of a Rivet artificially turned, so that the Instrument may eafily open and fhut. When an Angle is taken with it, the Center of a Protractor must be put to the Place where the two Rulers join each other, and the Degrees cut by the Edge, will fhow the Quantity of the Angle ; or else the Angle which the two Rulers make, is drawn upon Paper, and then it is measured with a Protractor.

The Instrument B, is made like the precedent one, only there are two Steel Points at the Fig. B. Ends, in order for it to ferve as a Pair of Compasses.

The Instrument C, is different from the others, because it fhews the Quantities of Angles Fi S- C» without a Protractor.

It is compofed of 2 Brass Rulers of equal Breadth and parallel, about 2 Feet long, and 2 or 3 Inches thick, joined together by a very round Rivet : it has besides a Circle divided in- to 360 Degrees at the End of one of the Rulers, and a little Index fixed to the Rivet, which Ihews the Number of Degrees the 2 Rulers contain between them. I shall not here fhew how to divide the Circle, having fufficiently fpoken of it in the Construction of the Protractor ; only note, that the Degrees are always reckoned from the Middle of the Rule, where the Center is.

There are these Sorts of Instruments made by dividing a Circle upon the under Ruler, and filing the upper one like the Head of a Sector, that thereby the Degrees of the Opening of the Legs may be known, by means of the two Shoulders of the upper Leg.

To measure a faliant Angle with any one of the three Recipient-Angles, apply the Insides of the two Rulers, to the Lines forming the Angle ; and to measure a rentrant Angle, apply the Outsides of the fame Rulers to the Lines forming the Angle.

The Instrument D, is made of 4 Brass Rules, equal in Breadth, joined together by 4 round Fig. D. Rivets, forming an equilateral Parallelogram.

At the End of one of the Rules there is a Semi-circle, divided into 1 80 Degrees. The other Branch pafTing upon the Semi-circle, is continued to the Divisions of the Semi-circle, in order to fhew the Quantities of Angles.

The said Rules are made one or two Feet long, 8 or 10 Lines broad, and of a convenient Thicknefs; they ought to be drilled very equal in Length, namely, that where the Center of the Semi-circle is (marked 2.) and at the other End in the Point 1. That which ferves for an Index, ought to be drilled in the Points 2 and 3. And lastly, The two other Rules in the Point 4. The Rule ferving for an Index, must be faftened to the Center of the Semi-circle ; and the two other Rules, which are of equal Length, must be faftened underneath the two others, all of them so as their Motion may be very uniform.

When a faliant Angle is to be measured with this Instrument, the 2 equal Rules must be put underneath the 2 others, so that the End 4 be underneath 2, and thereby the 4 Rules make but 2 to encompass the Angle : but when a rentrant Angle is to be measured, the two Rules must be drawn out (as per Figure), and applied to the Corner of the Angle-, and since in every Parallelogram the opposite Angles are equal, the Degrees of the Angle may be known by the Semi-circle.

U S E I. Of the Recipient-Angle. To take the Plan of a Baftion •, as, for Example ; A BCD E, make a Memorial, and then Fig. 19, measure, with the Instrument, the rentrant Angle E, made by th» Courtine of the Place, and the flanquant Angle of the proposed Baftion, by applying it horizontally, in such manner that one of the Rules may be in" the Direction of the said Courtine, and the other in the Di- rection of the Flank ; and -having found the Quantity of it in Degrees, frt it down upon a little Arc in your Memorial ; then measure the Flank ED, which fet down upon the Line e d in your Memorial. Again, apply the Rules of your Instrument to the faliant Angle D 4 and fet down it's Quantity upon a little Arc ■, measure the Length of the left Face C D, take the Quantity of the flanquant Angle C, and of. all the other Angles of the Baftion, as likewise the Length of the Faces and Flanks t after which, by help of a Scale, the Plan of the Baftion may be drawn neat.

But since it often happens that these Angles, which are commonly made of Free-Stone, are not well cut, by the Negligence of Workmen, who make them either too acute or obtuse ; to remedy this, there must be a long Rule horizontally applied to each Wall, whose Direction is aood, tho' the Angles are not ; and putting the Legs of the Instrument level upon those two Rules, the Angle to be measured may be more exactly had.

USE II. To take the Plot of a Piece of Ground encompassed by right Lines,

fig. 20. Let the Piece of Ground proposed be ABCDEFG; measure exactly the Length of all

the Sides, and fet them down upon the relative Lines of your Memorial '; then take, with any recipient Angle, the Quantity of each Angle, as, for Example, the Angle A G F, and fet down the Quantity of it upon the relative Angle a g /, in the Memorial •, measure also the Angle FED, by applying the Instrument to it (as per Figure), and fet down the Quan- tity thereof upon the relative Angle of the Memorial, and so of all the other Angles, whose Quantities being noted in Degrees, as likewise the Lengths of all the Lines, the Plot abed efg may be neat drawn, and similar to A B C D E F G.

In this Plate may be feen the Plane of a Pentagon fortified, with the Names of the Parts of it's Fortification.

Of the ConftruEiion a?id Use of the Theodolite.

Plate 12. f | '^ HIS Instrument is made of Wood, Brass, or any other solid Matter, commonly circu- p ig A x l ar &gt; anc * about one Foot in Diameter. In the Center of this Instrument is fet upright a

little Brass Cylinder, or Pivot, about which an Index turns, furnifhed with two Sights, or a Telescope, having a right Line, called The Fiducial Line, exactly anfwering to the Center of the aforsaid little Cylinder, whose Top ought to be cut into a Screw, for receiving a Nut to fallen the Index, upon which is fixed a small Compass for finding the Meridian Line.

The Limb of the Theodolite is a Circle of such a Thicknefs, as to contain about fix round Pieces of Pafteboard within it (of which we are going to fpeak), and of such a Breadth as to receive the Divisions of 360 Degrees, and fometimes of every fifth Minute.

There are several round Pieces of Pafteboard, of the Bignefs of the Theodolite, pierced thro' the Middle with a round Hole, exactly to fit the Pivot-, so that the Pivot may be put thro' each of the aforsaid Holes in the Pieces of Pafteboard, and the upper Pafteboard may have the Index moving upon it. This upper Pafteboard may be fixed at pleafure, by means of a little Point faftened to the Limb of the Instrument, and entering a little way into the Pafteboard. There is commonly drawn with Ink, upon each of these Pafteboards, a Radius or Semidiameter, ferving for a Station-Line.

Underneath the Theodolite is faftened a Ball and Socket, reprefentcd by the Figure D, which is a Brass Ball enclofed between two Shells of the fame Metal, that may be more or less opened by means of a Screw, and a Socket G, in which goes the Head of a three-legged Staff", of which more by and by.

Fig. A, reprefents the Instrument put together. We now proceed to fhew the Construction of the Pieces compofiug it, in beginning with the Division of it's Limb.

First, Draw upon the Limb two or three concentrick Circles, to contain the Degrees, and the Numbers fet at every tenth Degree ; then divide one of these Circumferences into four very equal Parts, each of which will be 90 Degrees ; and dividing each of these four Parts into 9 more, the Circumference will be divided into every tenth Degree. Again, each of these last Parts being divided by 2, and each of those arifing into 5 equal Parts, the whole Circumference will be divided into 360 Degrees. This being done, you must draw the Lines of these Divisions upon their convenient Arcs, by means of a Ruler moving about the Center. Afterwards Numbers must be fet to every tenth Degree, beginning from the Fiducial Line, which is that whereon the two fixed Sights or Telescope is faftened.

A Theodolite thus divided is of much greater Use than those whose Limbs are not divid- ed ; for it may ferve exactly to take the Plots of Places, and measure inaccefiible Distances by Trigonometry.

The Figures B reprefent the Sights which are placed upon different Instruments ; that to which is placed the Eye, hath a long (trait Slit, which ought to be very perpendicular, made with a fine Saw \ and that which is turned towards the Object, hath a square Hole, so large, that the adjacent Parts of a distant Object may be perceived thro' it: And along the Middle of this Hole is drained a very fine Gut, in order to vertically cut Objects, when they are per* ceived thro' the Slit of the other Sight. But that the Eye may be indifferently placed at any one of the two Sights at pleafure, so that Objects may be as well perceived thro' the Sights on one Side the Instrument, on which they are placed, as on the other ; there is made in each Sio-ht a square Hole and a Slit, the Hole in one Sight being below the Slit, and in the other Sio-ht above it, as the little Figures fhew. Thefe Sights ought to be exactly placed on the Extremes, and in the fiducial Line, as well of Instruments as Indexes, and are faftened in little square Holes with Nuts underneath, or else by means of Screws, according as the Place they are fattened on requires.

The little Figure C reprefents the aforsaid Cylinder, or Pivot, with it's Nut, for joining the Index to the Theodolite ; those of Semicircles, and other Instruments, are made in the fame manner, only they are rivetted underneath.

The Figure D reprefents the Ball and Socket for fupporting the Instrument, and is com- pofed of a Brass Ball inclofed between two Shells of the fame Metal, which are made very round, with Balls of tempered Steel cut in manner of a File. Thefe Shells are locked more or less by means of a Screw, that so they may prefs the Ball inclofed between them according to neceffity. One of these Shells is foldered to the Socket G, which is a turned Brass Ferrel, in which the Foot of the Instrument is put. Balls and Sockets are made of different Big- neffes, according to the Bigneffes of Instruments, and are faftened to the Instruments with Screws, in a Plate riveted to the Top of the Ball.

Ccnflruflion of the Feet for fupporting of Instruments.

We have already mentioned the fimple Fe^t for fupporting Surveying-Crofies, which are to be forced into the Ground ; but those whose Defcription we are now going to give, are not to be forced into the Ground, but are opened or fhut according as the Inequality of the Ground, the Instrument is to be used upon, requires.

The Foot E is a triangular Plate, in whose Middle is a Piece b, which is to go into the Socket G.

Underneath the aforsaid Plate are faftened three Ferrels, or Sockets, moveable by means of Joints, for receiving three round Staves of such a Length, that the Obferver's Eye, when the Instrument is using, may commodioufly view Objects thro' the Telescope, or Sights. The Extremities of these Staves are furnifhed with Ferrels and Iron Points, in order to keep the Instrument firm when it is using.

The Foot F confifts of four Staves, about two Foot long, whereof that in the Middle* called the Shank, hath it's Top rounded, that so it may go into the Socket •, the Rest of this Staff is cut in Figure of a Triangle, that so the three Faces thereof may receive upon them three other Staves, faftened by means of three Screws (all of a piece) and so many Nuts. Thefe three Staves are furnifhed with Ferrels and Iron Points, being flat within side, and have three Faces without.

When v/e have a mind to carry this Foot, we re-unite all the Staves together, so that they make, as it were, but one, and by this means are fhorter by about the half, than when the Foot is using.

We generally hang to the Middle of each of these Feet a Thread and Plummet, in order to know the Station- Point.

U S E of the Theodolite.

To take the Map of a Country by this Instrument, chufe two high Places, for Example, Fig. i; the Obfervatory, and the Sah-Petre Houfe, from whence the Country nigh Paris, a Map of which is to be made, may be feen •, then mark round the Center of the upper Pafteboard the Name of the Place chosen for the first Station, and having fixed it by means of the Point on the Limb of the Theodolite, put the Index upon it, which fufficiently fcrew down by means of the Nut and Screw.

Now having placed the Theodolite upon it's Foot, planted at the Obfervatory, and given it a Situation nearly horizontal, so that it may remain fteddy while the Index is moving, obferve thro' the Sights the Steeple of the Salt-Petre Houfe, and along the fiducial Line of the Index from the Center draw the Station-Line.

Then turn the Index, and obferve some remarkable Object thro' the Sights, as the Steeple of Vaugirard, towards which a Line must be drawn upon the Pafteboard, from the Center, along the fiducial Line of the Index, and along this Line write the Name of the Place viewed thro' the Sights.

Again, direct the Index towards some other Object (as Mont-rouge) and draw a Line to- wards it from the Center, along the fiducial Line, and uppn this Line write the Nam* of the Place observed. Proceed in the fame Manner with all the confiderabie Places that can be feen from the Obfervatory.

Now having removed the Theodolite from it's firfl: Station, having well observed it's Place, and tranfported it to some other defigned Place, as to the Salt-Petre Houfe •, measure the exact Distance between the two Stations upon level Ground, the Number of Toifes of which mud be fet down upon your Pafteboard, which must now be turned, or taken from under the Index, that so at every different Station, the upper Face of the Pafteboard, upon which the Index is, may be clean : then fet down about the Center of this new Pafteboard, the Name of the Place of your second Station, and upon the Base Line the Number of Toifes measured, that so you may remember this Line is the fame as that on the precedent Pafte- board. The Theodolite being placed here, difpofe it fo, that placing the fiducial Line of the Index upon the Station Line, you may difcover thro' the Sights, the Obfervatory, which was your first Station.

The Instrument remaining firm in this Situation, turn the Index, and fucceffively. view thro' the Sights the former Objects observed from the Obfervatory, and draw Lines, as before, upon the Pafteboard, along the Index, from the Center towards the Places viewed, and upon each Line write the correfpondent Name of the Place.

If all the Places you have a mind to fet down in your Map, cannot be feen from the two precedent Stations, you must chufe a third Place from whence they may be observed, and make as many new Stations, as are neceffary for perceiving each remarkable Object, from two Places fufficiently distant from each other.

Now to reprefent this Map upon a Sheet of Paper, first draw a right Line at pleafure up- on it, for a common Base, which divide into the fame Number of equal Parts, as you have measured Toifes upon the Ground. About one End of this Line, as a Center, defenbe cir- cular Arcs equal to those drawn upon the first Pafteboard, and upon the other Extreme, Arcs equal to those drawn upon the second Pafteboard, and produce the Lines forming the Arcs 'till they meet each other j then the Points of Concourfe, will be the Points of Pofition of the Places observed.

The aforsaid Places may be laid down upon the Paper eafier, by placing the Centers of the Pafteboards upon the Extremities of the common Base, and noting upon the Paper the Ends of the Lines drawn upon the Pafteboard, and then drawing Lines from the Stations thro' those Points 'till they interfect.

By means of this Theodolite may be had in Degrees, or Parts, all the Angles that the Places viewed thro' the Sights or Telescopes, make, with the Places whereat the Instrument is placed.

What we have said, is fufficient to mew the Manner of using the Theodolite in taking the Pofition of Places, and making of Maps, because the Operations are the fame for all different Places ; but for it's Uses, with regard to Trigonometry, they are the fame as those of the Semi-circle and Quadrant, of which we are going to treat.

It is commonly made of Brass, or other solid Matter, 12 or 15 Inches Radius, and an an- fwerable Thicknefs. It's Circumference is first divided into 90 Degrees, and every Degree into as many equal Parts as pofiible, without Confufion, and in such manner, that the Divi- fions and Subdivifions may be juft, and very diftindtly marked upon the Limb of the In- ftrument.

To do which, there must first be 2 Arcs drawn nigh the Edge of the Quadrant, about 8 or 9 Lines distant from each other ; and after having divided them into Degrees, draw Dia- gonal Lines between them, from the first Degree to the second, from the second to the third, and so on to the last.

After which, if you have a mind to fubdivide every Degree into 10 Minutes, there must 5 Other concentrick Arcs be defcribed from the Center of the Instrument, cutting all the afore- said Diagonals •, but if every Degree is to be fubdivided into Minutes, there must be 9 con- centrick Arcs defcribed between those two first drawn.

The Distances between all these Arcs, must not be all equal, because the Extent of a De- gree taken in the Breadth of the Limb, forms a kind of Trapezium, broader towards the out- ward Arc, and narrower towards the inward one j whence a mean Arc dividing every De- gree

To make these Subdivifions exactly, the Diagonals must be Curve Lines, as R D C, de- Fig H. fcnbed in making the Portion of a circular Arc pass thro' the Center B, the beginning of the 1 ft Degree marked D, upon the inward Arc, and the End C of the fame Degree, on the out- wark Arc : which is eafy to do by Use 18. Lib. 1. which fhews how to make a Circle pass thro' 3 Points given, by which means the Point F, the Center of the Diagonal Curve, pafiing thro' the first Degree, will be found.

Afterwards one of these Diagonal Curves must be divided into equal Parts, and from the Center of the Instrument, there must be drawn as many concentrick Arcs, as each Degree is to have equal Parts.

The Reason of this Operation is, that the Diagonal Curve being divided into equal Parts, if from the Center of the Instrument there are drawn right Lines thro' all the Points of Divi- fion of that Arc, there will be had (per Prop. 27. Lib. 3. Eucl.) as many equal Angles in the Center, becaufc they will be all in the Circumference of the fame Circle, and ftand upon equal Arcs.

But since it is troublefome to find the Centers of 90 Arcs, each pafiing thro' 3 Points •, and since it is manifest, that all the Centers of these Arcs ought to be placed in the Circumfe- rence of a Circle whose Center is the Point B ; there is no more to do but draw a Circle from the Center B, with the Distance BF, and divide it's Circumference into 360 equal Parts - y upon every of which, fetting one Foot of your Compasses, you may defcribe with the fame Extent F B, all the Arcs between the Circles AC, D E, and then the circular Arcs,- which are Diagonals, will likewise divide the Circumferences, upon the Limb of the Inftru- ment, into Degrees. Note, Because the Figure is too little, it is divided but into every 5th Degree.

Diagonal Curves may also be drawn without transferring the Foot of your Compasses frorri one Degree to another, upon the aforsaid Arc, in fixing the Foot of your Compasses in only one Point, as F, and letting the Instrument be gradually turned about the Center of a large Circle, whose Limb is already divided into Degrees, by means of a Rule strongly faftened upon the Instrument, and reaching to the Divisions of the large Circle.

Ingenious Workmen may fhorten their Work by adjufting a fine Steel Ruler, according to the Curvature of the first Diagonal, which being drawn, by this means they may draw all the others. If Diagonal right Lines are to be drawn from one Degree to the other, the Lengths of the Radii of each of the Circumferences cutting the Diagonals, may be found by Trigonometry, an Example of which is as follows :

Suppose a Quadrant be 6 Inches Radius, which is the fmalleft accuftomed to be divided by Diagonals. Suppose also you have a Scale of 1000 equal Parts, and that the Distance from the inward Arc to the outward one, is 9 Lines, anfwering to 125 of such Parts, whereof the Radius is 1000 ; whence, by Calculation, I find that the right-lined Diagonal, drawn from one Degree to that which follows it, is 126 of the fame Parts ; and that the Radius of the in- ward Arc, whicn is 5 Inches, 3 Lines, contains 875 of them.

The obtuse Angle made by the Radius and the Diagonal, is 172 Deg. 2 Min. and after- wards calculating the Lengths of the Radii of the Circumferences cutting the Diagonals, and dividing them into every 10 Minutes, I find that the Radius of 10 Min. is 894 of the fame equal Parts, inftead of 896 which it would have contained, if the Distance between the in- ward and outward Arc had been divided into 6 equal Parts. The Radius of 20 Minutes ought to contain 913 of them, inftead of 917 •, the Radius of 30 Minutes ought to contain gi2 of them, inftead of 938 •, the Radius of 40 Minutes ought to contain 954 of them, in- ftead of 959. Laftly, the Radius of 50 Minutes ought to contain gyy, inftead of 980, which it must, if the aforsaid Distance be divided into 6 equal Parts.

The greateft Error, which is about 5 Parts, anfwers to about '- of a Line, which may caufe an Error of 2 Minutes •, but this Error diminishes in proportion as the Radius of the Quadrant augments in refpecl of the Diagonals, so that the Error will be less by half, if the Radius of the Quadrant be one Foot, and the Distance of the inward and outward Arcs is but 9 Lines.

What we have said as to the Divisions of the Quadrant, may likewise be applied to Theo- dolites, Circles, Semi-circles, or any other Portions of Circles to be divided into Minutes;

As to the Geometrick Square, each Side of it is divided into 100 equal Parts, beginning at the Ends, that so the Number 100 may end at the Angle of 45 Degrees. Thefe Divisions are diftinguilhed by little Lines from 5 to 5, and by Numbers from 10 to 10 ; all those Di- vifions being produced from a kind of Lattice, both ways containing 10000 small and equal Squares.

This Quadrant is furnifhed with two immoveable Sights, faftened to one of it's Semi-dia* meters, and with a Thread and Plummet fixed to the Center, as likewise a moveable Index* with two other Sights, faftened to the Center, with a Headed-Rivet. The Sights are nearly like those belonging to the Theodolite.

Inftead of immoveable Sights, there is fometimes fattened to one of the Radius's of the Quadrant a Telescope, and then the ift Point of Division of the Circumference may be found in the manner as is explained hereafter in the Aftronomical Quadrant : for this Quadrant is dcfigned only to take the Heights and Distances of Places on Earth.

Upon the under Surface of this Quadrant, is a Ball and Socket fattened with 3 Screws, by means of which it may be put into any Pofition fit for Use.

This Instrument may be put in Use in different Situations •, for first, it may be so disposed that it's Plane may be at right Angles with the Horizon, for obferving Heights and Depths, which may yet be done two different ways, viz. in using the fixed Sights, and the Thread and Plummet, and then neither of it's Sides will be found parallel to the Horizon ; or else by keeping the Sights fattened to the Index moveable, and then one of the Semi-diameters of the Quadrant will always be parallel to the Horizon, and the other perpendicular: which may be done by means of a Plummet fufpended in the Center, and then the fixed Sights are ufelefs.

Finally, the Quadrant may be placed so as it's Plane may be parallel to the Horizon, for obferving horizontal Distances with the Index and immoveable Sights, and then the Thread, with it's Plummet, is not in ufe.

Uses of the Quadrant : , with two fxed Sights and a Plummet.

U S E I. To take the Height or Depth of any Objeff in Degrees.

As suppose the Height of a Star or Tower is to be taken in Degrees j place the Quadrant vertically, then place your Eye under that fixed Sight next the Circumference of the Qua- drant, and direct it fo, that the vifual Rays patting through the Holes of the Sights, may tend to the Point of the Object proposed (as to the Sun, it is fufhcient that it's Rays pass thro* the aforsaid Holes) : then the Arc of the Circumference contained between the Thread and it's Plummet, and the Semi-diameter on which the Sights are fattened, will fhow the Complement of the Star's Height above the Horizon, or it's Distance from the Zenith : "Whence the Arc contained between the Thread, and the other Semi-diameter towards the Object, fhews it's Height above the Horizon. The fame Arc likewise determines the Quan- tity of the Angle made by the vifual Ray, and a horizontal Line, parallel to the Base of the Tower.

But to obferve Depths, as those of Wells or Ditches, the Eye mutt be placed over that Sight, which is next the Center of the Quadrant.

The whole Operation confifts in calculating Triangles by the Rule of Three, formed in the the Proportion of the Sines of Angles, to the Sines of their opposite Sides, according to the Rules of right-lined Trigonometry, of which we are now going to give some Examples.

USE II. Let it be required to find the Height of the Tower AH, whose Base is acceffible.

F'g 2. Having planted the Foot of your Instrument in the Point C, look at the Top of the

Tower thro' the fixed Sights \ then the Thread of the Plummet freely playing, will fix itfelf upon the Number of Degrees, determining the Quantity of the Angle made at the Center of the Quadrant, by the vifual Ray, and the horizontal Line, parallel to the Base of the Tower, accounting the Degrees contained between the Thread and the Semi-diameter next to the Tower.

Now suppose the Thread fixes upon 35 Deg. 35 Min. and having exactly measured the level Distance from the Foot of the Tower, with a Chain, to the Place of Observation, you will find it 47 Feet ; then there will be 3 things given, to wit, the Side B C, and the An- gies of the Triangle A B C: for since Walls are always supposed to be built upright, the Angle B is a right Angle, or 90 Deg. and confequently the 2 acute Angles A and C, are to- gether equal to 90 Degrees, because the three Angles of any right-lined Triangle, are equal to 180 Degrees, or 2 right Angles.

Now the Angle observed, is 35 Deg. 35 Min. whence the Angle A is 54 Deg. 25 Min. therefore you may form this Analogy, As the Sine of 54 Deg. 25 Min. is to 47 Feet, So is the Sine of 35 Deg. 35 Min. to a fourth Term, which will be found 33 z Feet-, to which adding 5 Feet, the Height of the Obferver's Eye, and the Height of the proposed Tower will be found 38 f Feet.

USE III. Let it be required to find the Height of the inacceffble Tower D E. Fig. 3. In this Cafe two Obfervations must be made, as follow :

Place the Foot of your Quadrant in the Point F, and look thro' the two immoveable Sights to the Top of the Tower D ; then fee on what Degree the Thread of the Plummet fixes, which suppose on the 34th. This being done, remove the Instrument, planting a Staff in it's Place, and fet it up in some other Place level to the Place it was in before, as in the Point G, in the fame right Line, and look thro' the afore-mentioned Sights, at the Point D of the Tower. Note the Point in the Limb of the Quadrant that the Thread cuts, which suppose 20 Degrees. Meafure likewise very exactly, the Distance between the two Stations, which suppose 9 Toifes, or 54 Feet. ^ This being done, all the Angles of the Triangle DFG will be known, as also the Side FG measured; by which means it will be eafy to find the Side D F, and afterwards the Side E D, by making the following Analogies.

The Angle EFD being found 34 Deg. it's Complement D F G to 180 Deg. will be 146 Peg. and tlie Angle G having been found 20 Deg. it follows that the Angle FDG is 14 Deg. therefore fay, As the Sine of 14 Deg. is to 54 Feet, So is the Sine of 20 Deg. to a fourth Term, which will be 76 Feet, and about - T , for the Side DF: then fay, As Radius is to the Hypo- thenufe FD, So is the Sine of the Angle D F E, to the Side ED, which will be found 42 * Feet ; to which adding 5 Feet, the Height of the Center of the Instrument above the Ground, and there will be had 47 \ Feet, for the Height of the Tower proposed.

Thefe Calculations are much better made with Logarithms, than by common Numbers, because they may be done by only the help of Addition and Subftraction, as is more fully ex- plained in Books of Trigonometry.

Thefe Propofitions, and others the like, may be also geometrically folved, by making Tri- angles similar to those formed upon the Ground.

As to folve the prefent Queftion, make a Scale of ioToifes, that is, draw the right Line AB so long, that the Division of it may be exact; and then divide it into 10 equal Parts, and fubdivide one of these Parts into 6 more, to have a Toife divided into Feet.

Then draw the indeterminate Line EG, and make with a Line of Chords, or Protractor, an Angle at the Point G of 20 Degrees, and draw the indeterminate Line G D. Lay off 9 Toifes, or 54 Feet, from G to F ; then make at the Point F an Angle of 34 Degrees, and draw the Line F D, cutting the Line G D in some Point as D, from which let fall the Per- pendicular D E, which will reprefent the Height of the proposed Tower, and measuring it with the Scale, you will find it to contain 47 Feet, 8 Inches. All the other Sides of these Triangles may likewise be measured with the fame Scale.

USE IV. To find the Breadth of a Ditch, or Well, ivhofe Depth may be measured.

Let it be proposed to measure the Breadth of the Ditch CD, which may be approached. Fig, 4.

Place the Quadrant upon the Brink in the Point A, so that you may fee thro' the Sights the Bottom of the Ditch, at the Point D; then find the Angle made by the Thread upon the Limb, which suppose is 63 Degrees, and measure the Depth A C, from the Center of the Quadrant, which suppose 25 Feet; then make a similar right-angled Triangle, one of whose acute Angles is 63 Degrees (and confequently the other will be 27 Degrees), and the least Side is 25 Parts of some Scale. Laftly, measure with the fame Scale the Side CD, which will be about 49 ; therefore the Breadth of the Ditch is 49 Feet.

USE of the Geometrick Quadrat.

The Quadrant being vertically placed, and the Sights directed towards the Top of the Fig. G. Tower proposed to be measured ; if the Thread of the Plummet cuts the Side of the Qua- drat, whereon is writ right Shadows, the Distance from the Base of the Tower, to the Point of Station, is less than the Tower's Height : if the Thread falls upon the Diagonal of the Square, the Distance is equal to the Height ; but if the Thread falls upon the Side of the Square, whereon b writ verfed Shadows, the Distance of the Tower from you, is greater than it's Height.

Now having measured the Distance from the Foot of the Tower, it's Height may be found by the Rule of Three, in having 3 Terms known, but their Difpofition is not always the fame ; for when the Thread cuts the Side, denoted right Shadow, the first Term of the Rule of Three, ought to be that part of the Side cut by the Thread, the second Term will be the whole Side of the Square, and the third, the Distance measured.

But when the Thread cuts the other Side of the Square, the first Term of the Rule of Three, must be the whole Side of the Square; the second Term, the Parts of that Side cut by the Thread ; and the third, the Distance measured.

Suppose, for Example, that looking to the Top of a Tower, the Thread of the Plummet cuts the Side of right Shadows in the Point 40, and that the Distance measured is 20 Toifes : I order the Rule of Three in the following manner; [40. 100. 20.

Multiplying 20 by 100, and dividing the Product 2000 by 40, there will be found the fourth Term 50, which fhews the Height of the Tower to be 50 Toifes.

But if the Thread of the Plummet falls on the other Side of the Square, as, for Example, upon the Point 60, and the Distance measured is 35 Toifes ; difpofe the three first Terms of the Rule of Three thus, [100. 60. 35.

Multiply 35 by 60, and the Product 2100 being divided by 100, will give 21 for the Height of the Tower.

USE of the Quadrat without Calculation.

All the aforsaid Operations, with many others, may be made without Calculation, as we shall make manifest by some Examples.

USE I. Let us suppose (as we have already done) that the Thread falls upon 40 on the F^g. G. Side of right Shadows, and that the Distance measured is 20 Toifes ; feek amongft the little Squares for that Perpendicular to the Side, which is 20 Parts from the Thread, and that Perpendicular will cut the Side of the Square next to the Center in the Point 50, which will be the Height of the proposed Tower in Toifes.

USE II. But if the Thread cuts the Side of verfed Shadows in the Point 60, and the Distance is 35 Toifes, count upon the Side of the Quadrant, from the Center, 35 Parts ; count also the Divisions of the Perpendicular from that Point 35 to the Thread, which will be a i, the Height of the proposed Tower in Toifes.

Note, In all Cafes the Height of the Center of the Instrument above the Ground, must be added.

USE III. To take an inacceffible Height with the Quadrat.

To do which, there must be made two Stations, whose Distance must be measured, and then there will be three Cafes.

CASE I. When the right Shadow is cut in both Stations by the Thread.

Let us suppose, for Example, that at the first Obfervation the Side of right.Shadows is cut in the Point 30, and the Instrument being removed 20 Toifes to a second Station, the Side of right Shadows is cut in the Point 70 -, then note the Pofition of the Thread in these two Sta- tions, by drawing a Line upon the Lattice with a Pencil, from the Center to the aforsaid Point 30, and another to the Point 70. Seek between these two Lines a Portion of a Parallel, which may have as many Parts as the Distance measured has Toifes, which in this Example must be 20: then the said Parallel being continued, will meet the Number 50, counting from the Center, whence the Height of the Tower observed, will be 50 Toifes. You will likewise by the fame means find that the Distance from the Base of the Tower, to the first Station, is 15 Toifes, because there is 15 Parts contained upon the Parallel between the Number 50, and the Line drawn with the Pencil to the Number 30.

Inftead of drawing Lines with a Pencil, two Threads faftened to the Center will do, one of which may be the Thread of the Plummet.

CASE II. When the Side of verfed Shadows is cut at both Stations by the Thread.

Suppose, in the first Station, that the Thread cuts the Side of verfed Shadows in the Point 80, and that being removed 15 Toifes to another Station, the Thread falls upon the Number 50 on the fame Side. Mark with a Pencil upon the Lattice, the two different Pofitions of the Thread in both Stations, and find between these two Lines, a Portion of a Parallel contain- ing as many Parts as the Distance measured contains Toifes, which, in this Example, is 15 Toifes : to these 1 5 Parts add 25, which is the Continuation of the fame Parallel to the Side of the Square next to the Center, and the Sum makes 40 ; whence the Distance of the Tower, from the second Station, is 40 Toifes : and to find it's Height, feek the Number 40 upon the Side of the Square next the Center, and count from that Number to the first Line drawn on the Lattice with the Pencil, the Parts of the Parallel, which in this Example will be found 20 •, therefore the Height of the Tower is 20 Toifes, by always adding the Height of the Quadrant.

CASE III. If in one Station the Thread falls upon the Diagonal of the Square, and in the other it cuts the Side of right Shadows, you must proceed in the fame manner as when the Thread at both Stations falls upon the Side of right Shadows.

But when the Thread falls along the Diagonal in one Station, and upon the Side of verfed Shadows in the other, you must proceed in the fame manner, as when the Thread cuts, at both Stations) the Side of verfed Shadows.

The Reason of all this is, because there is always made upon the Lattice a little Triangle similar to a great one, made upon the Ground, altho' diverfiy pofited. The Line made by the Thread and Plummet always reprefents the Vifual Ray ; the two other Sides of the little Triangle, which make a right Angle, reprefent the Height of the Tower and it's Distance ; and when the Thread cuts the Side of right Shadows, the Height is reprefented by the Di- vifions of the Sides of the Lattice, which is perpendicular to the Side of the Quadrat ; but when the Thread cuts the Side of verfed Shadows, the Distance is reprefented by the Divi- fions of the Side distant from the Center, and the Height by the Perpendicular anfwering to the Number of Divisions of the fame Side.

USE IV. To find the Depth of a Ditch or Well.

The Breadth of the Ditch (or Well) must first be measured, and afterwards you must place the Quadrant upon the Brink, and look thro' the two Sights, 'till you fee the opposite Point, where the Surface of the Water touches the Side of the Ditch •, then the Thread will cut the Parallel, anfwering to the Feet or Toifes of the Ditch's Breadth •, and that Perpendicular, at which the Parallel ends, will determine the Depth, from which must be.lubftracted the Height of the Instrument above the Brink of the Ditch.

Place the Quadrat so that it's Plane may be at right Angles with the Plane of the Horizon, and one of it's Sides parallel thereto, which will be done when the Plummet, freely -hanging, falls along the other Side of the Quadrant.

In this Situation the two fixed Sights are of no Use, unlefs they are used to obferve the Distance between two Stars, and then the Quadrant mud be inclined, by directing the im- moveable Sights towards one Star, and the moveable ones towards the other-, and the Num- ber of Degrees, comprehended between them, will be the Distance of the Stars in Degrees.

If it is used to obferve an Height, the Center of the Instrument mud be above the Eye; but if a Depth is to be observed, the Eye must be above the Center of the Instrument.

U S E I. To take an Height , as that of a Tower •, wbofe Base is acceffible.

Having placed the Quadrant, as already fhewn, turn the Index.; so that you may fee the Top of the Tower thro' the two Sights •, and the Arc of the Limb of the Quadrant, between that Side of it parallel to the Horizon, and the Index, will be the Height of the Tower in Decrees. If afterwards the Distance from the Foot of the Tower, to the Place where the In- ftrument ftands, be exactly measured, there will be three things given in the Triangle to be measured •, namely, the Base, and the two Angles made at it's Ends, one of which will be always a right Angle, because the Tower is supposed to be built upright, and the other the An^le before observed ; whence the other Sides of the Triangle may be found by the Rules of rioht-lined Trigonometry, or else without Calculation, by drawing a little Triangle similar to the great one, whose Base is the Ground, and Perpendicular the Height of the Tower ; or otnerwile by the Geometrick Square, in obferving, that in that Pofition of the Quadrant, the Side of right Shadows ought always to be parallel to the Horizon, and the Side of verfed Shadows perpendicular thereto.

USE II. To find the Height of a Tower ', whether acccffible or inacceffible^ by means of the Quadrat.

In the aforementioned Pofition of the Quadrant, there are always formed, in the Quadrat, little similar Triangles, whose homologous Sides are parallel and similarly pofited to those of the great ones formed upon the Ground -, by which means the Operations are rendered more fimple and eafy than in the other Situation of the Quadrant •, as we come now to explain, by making three different Suppofitions, according to the different Cafes that may happen.

CASE I. Let us suppose, for Example, that having observed the Height of a Tower, whose tiafe is accefilble, thro' the Sights of the Index, the Index cuts the Side of right Sha- dows in the Point 40, and the Distance to the Base of the Tower is 20 Toifes ; feek among the Parallels to the Horizon, from that which paries thro' the Center to the Index, the Paral- lel of 20 (because 20 Toifes is the Distance supposed), and you will find that it terminates at the Number 50, on the perpendicular Side of the Square, reckoning from the Center ; whence the Height of the Tower is 50 Toifes above the Center of the Instrument.

CASE If. Suppose, in another Obfervation, that the Index cuts the Side of verfed Sha- dows in the Point 60, and the Distance measured is 35 Toifes ; count from the Center of the Quadrant upon the Side parallel to the Horizon 35, and from this Point, reckoning the Parts of the Perpendicular, to the Interferon of the Index, and you will find 21 ; whence the Height of the Tower is 2 1 Toifes.

CASE III. Lajlly, Suppose the Base of the Tower to be inacceflible, and that there must be made two Stations (as we have said before)-, the Height of it may be found without any Diftinction of right or verfed Shadows : for having measured the Distance between the two Stations, and drawn two Lines in the Quadrat, fhewing the Situation of the Index in those two Stations, find between those two Lines a Portion of a Parallel to the Horizon, which shall have as many Parts, as the Distance measured contains Toifes: then if you continue that to the perpendicular Side of the Square distant from the Center, you will there find a Number expreffing tne Height of the Tower, and the Continuation of that Parallel to this Number, will fhew the Distance to the Base of the Tower.

Note, In this Situation of the Quadrant, horizontal Distances are always reprefented in the Quadrat by Lines parallel to the Horizon, and Heights are always reprefented by Lines per- pendicular to the Horizon, which renders (as we have already said) Operations more eafy.

It does not happen so in that other vertical Pofition of the Quadrant, when the fixed Sights are used -, for if in obferving the Height of an inacceflible Tower, the Thread of the Plummet in one Station falls upon the Side of right Shadows, and in the other Station, on the Side of verfed Shadows, the Distance between the two Lines drawn with a Pencil on the Lattice, croffes the Squares of the Lattice by their Diagonals, which will not have common Meafures with the Sides ; whence it cannot be used to find the Height of the proposed Tower.

USE of the Quadrant in measuring of Horizontal Distances.

Altho' a Quadrant is not so proper to measure horizontal Distances, as a Semi-circle or whole Circle, because by it obtuse Angles cannot well be taken, yet we shall here give fome Uses of it by means of the Quadrat. Place the Quadrant upon it's Foot nighly parallel to the Horizon -, for there is no Neceflity of it's Plane being perfectly level, because fometimes it must be inclined to perceive Objects thro' the Sights.

Then put the Foot of the Instrument in the Line to be measured, and make two Obfervations in the following manner, not using the Plummet, but the four Sights.

Staffs in the Line ACD, and the Quadrant in the Point A, in such manner that the two fixed Sights may be in the Line A C, and the Point B may be feen thro' the two moveable Sights, placed at right Angles with the Line A C : then remove the Quadrant, planting a Staff in it's place, and measure from A towards C, any Length ; as, for Example, 18 Toifes: at the End of which, having placed the Instrument, so that the two fixed Sights may be in the Line A C, move the Index 'till you fee the Point B thro' it's Sights, and you will have up- on the Lattice a little Triangle, similar to the great one made upon the Ground •, therefore feek amongft the Parallels cue by the Index, that which contains as many Parts as the Distance measured does Toifes; that is, in this Example, iS, which will terminate on the Side of the Quadrant, at a Number containing as many Parts as there are Toifes in the Line A B pro- pofed to be measured.

The Distance A B may yet otherwise be found, whether perpendicular or not, without making a Station at right Angles with the Point A.

Suppose, for Example, that the first Station is made in the Point C, and the second in the Point D •, draw upon the Lattice two right Lines with a Pencil, or otherwise, (hewing the two different Pofitions of the Index in both the Stations ; and having measured the Distance of the Points C and D, which suppose 20 Toifes, feek between the two Lines drawn with a Pencil, a Portion of a Parallel which is 20 Parts, and that will correfpond, upon the Semi- diameter of the Geometrick Quadrat, to a Number, which, reckoned from the Center, will contain as many Parts as the right Line A B does Toifes.

You will likewise find the Lengths of the Distances C B and DB, by the Divisions of the Index •, for there is upon the Lattice a little oblique-angled Triangle similar to the great one C D B upon the Ground.

CHAP. VI.

Of the ConJlruBion and Uses of the Semi-Circle,

Fig. I. Sc K. r I ^ H E S E Instruments which are also called Graphometers, are made of beaten or caft j^ Brass, from 7 Inches Diameter to 15 ; the Divisions of them are made in the fame manner as those of the Theodolite and Quadrant, before explained. The fimpleft of these Instruments, is that of Fig. K ; at the Ends of it's Diameter, and in little square Holes made upon the fiducial Line, there is adjufted two fixed Sights, fattened with Nuts underneath, and upon it's Center there is a moveable Index furnifhed with two other Sights, made in the fame manner as those before-mentioned for the Theodolite, and which is fattened with a Screw. There is a Compass placed in the Middle of it's Surface, for finding the North Sides of Planes. There is also fixed underneath to it's Center, a Ball and Socket, like that mentioned in the Construction of the Theodolite, and for the fame Use.

Note, Thefe Instruments ought to be well ftraightned with hammering; then they must be fafhioned with a rough File, and afterwards fmoothed With aBaftard-File, and a fine one. "When they are filed enough, you must fee whether they are not bent in filing ; if they are, they ought to be well ftraightned upon a Stone, or very plain Piece of Marble ; then they must be rubbed over with Pumice-Stone and Water, to take away the Tracts of the File. To polifh Semi-Circles well, as also any other Instruments, you must use German-Slate Stone, and very fine Charcoal, so that it does not fcratch the Work : afterwards, to brighten them, you must lay a little Tripoli, tempered in Oil, upon a Piece of Shamoy, and rub it over them.

The Semi-Circle I, carries Telescopes for feeing Objects at a good Distance, and has the Degrees of it's Limb divided into Minutes, by right-lined or curved Diagonals, as in the Quadrant before-mentioned.

There is one Telescope placed underneath along the Diameter of the Semi-Circle, whose Ends are B B ; and another Telescope adjufted to the Index of the Semi-Circle. When the fiducial Line cuts the Middle of the Index, the Telescope faftened to it must be a little fhorter than the Index, to the End that the Degrees cut by the fiducial Line may be feen ; but the beft way is for the Telescopes to be of equal Length, and then the fiducial Line must be drawn from the End C, passing thro' the Center of the Semi-Circle, and terminating in the opposite End D. The two Ends of the Index are cut so as to agree with the Degrees upon the Limb, as may be feen at the places C F, G D, in such manner that the Line C F E G D, may be the fiducial Line of the Semi-Circle.

Note, The Degrees on this Semi-Circle do not begin and end at the Diameter, as'in others* but at the Lines C F, G D, when the Telescopes are so placed over each other, that the vi- fual Rays agree. To make which, the little Frame carrying the crofs flairs, must be moved backwards or forwards by means^ of Screws. The Breadth from the Middle of the Telefcope, to the Points F, G, is commonly about 5 Degrees •, and this is the Reason why the Divisions begin further from the Diameter than they end, as may be feen per Fioure.

Thcfe Tclefcopes have two or four Glasses, and have a very fine Hair ltraincd in the Focus of the Object-Glass, ferving for a Sight.

Tclefcopes with four Glasses fhew Objects in their true Situation, but those with two Glasses invert them •, so that that which is on the right Hand appears on the left, and that which is above appears below : but this does not at all hinder the Truth of Operations, because they always give the Point of Direction.

Thefe Telescopes are made with Brass Tubes foldered, and turned in a Cylindrick Form 4 as may be feen by the Figure L, which reprefents a Telescope taken to pieces ; the Eye- Glass, being that to which the Eye is applied to look at Objects, is at the End 1. It is put in another little Tube apart (likewise marked 1) which is drawn out, or flid into the Te- lefcope, according to different Sights. This little Tube also fometimes carries the Hair in the Focus of "the Glass, ferving as a Sight •, but it is better for the Hair to be faftened to a little Piece of Brass ,feen apart) on which there is very exactly drawn a square Tract 2, upon which the Hairs are placed. The said Piece is placed in a Groove made in a little Brass Frame, foldered to the Tube of the Telescope at the Place 2 ; the small Screw 5 is to move forwards or backwards, the little Piece carrying the Hairs •, the Object-Glass is placed at the other End of the Telescope, next to the Object to be feen. It is also placed in the little Tube 3, which being put into the Tube of the Telescope, must be binded pretty much by it, that it may not eafily change it.'s Place when the Telescope is adjufted. The Glasses are convex, which renders their Middle thicker than their Edges ; but the Eye-Glass must have more Convexity than the Object-Glass, to the end that Objects may appear greater than by the naked Eye.

The Focus of a Convex Glass is that Place where the Rays, coming from a luminous or coloured Object, unite, after having passed thro' the Glass ; whence the Picture of Objects, opposite to the Glass, are there very diftinctly reprefented. For example, the Point R, at the End of the Cone of the Figure FT, is the Focus of the Glass S, because it is the Point where the Rays, entering at the other End N of the Tube, unite, after having passed thro' the Glass S.

The Telescopes most in Use (for Semi-Circles) are those with two Glasses, which are Co placed, that their Foci are common, and unite in the fame Point in the Tube of the Tele- fcope, in which Point the Hairs are placed ; if the focal Length of the Object-Glass is (even or eight times greater than that of the Eye-Glass, the Object will appear seven or eight times greater than when the Foci of the two Glasses are equal.

The Focus of the Eye-Glass being common with that of the Object-Glass, the coloured Rays, which falling upon the Surface of the Object-Glass, and uniting in the Focus of the Glass, afterwards continue their way diverging to the Eye-Glass, and pass thro' it; so that placing the Eye behind it, Objects may be perceived, whose Pictures are reprefented in the Focus : for it is the Object that fends forth it's Species to the Eye, as may be yet very manifest* ]y proved by the loliowing Experiment.

Darken a Room, by fhutting the Window-Shutters, and make a round Hole in fome Shutter, whose Window is expofed to a Place on which the Sun fhines : in which Hole place a Convex Glass, and also. a white Piece of Paper or Sheet in the Room, opposite to the Hole, and at the Glass's focal Distance from it ; then a very diftinct Reprefentation of all outward Objects, opposite to the Hole in the Shutter, will be painted upon the Paper in the Room in an inverted Situation ; and this Picture is made by Rays of Light coming from the Objects without. The focal Distance of the Glass may be found, by moving the Paper backwards and lorwards, 'till the Reprefentation of the Objects are diftinctly perceived.

There is a Ball and Socket belonging to this Semi-Circle, which, being well made, in the aforsaid manner, is the most perfect that can be made.

The Instrument M is a Protractor about 8 or 10 Inches Diameter, with it's moveable Index j we make them fometimes as large as Graphometers, and use them both in taking Angles in the Field to a Minute, and also plotting them upon Paper.

The Index of this Protractor turns about a circular Cavity, in the Middle of which is a little Point, fhewing the Center of the Protractor. The Divisions of the Limb of this Pro- tractor are made in the fame manner as those on the Limb of the Semi-Circle, and by the Me- thod before explained.

USEI. To take the Plot of a proposed Field, asABCDE; plant a Staff very up- F i g . 6. right, at each Angle of the Field, and measure exactly, with a Toife, one of it's Sides, as A B, which suppose 50 Toifcs, 2 Feet ; then make a Memorial, on which draw a Figure fomething like the Field proposed : This being done, place the Semi-Circle, with it's Foot, in the Place of the Staff A •, so that looking thro' the fixed Sights of the Diameter, you may fee the Staff B. Afterwards, the Semi-Circle remaining fixed in this Pofition, turn the Index, so that you may fee thro' the Sights the Staff C. Note the Angle made by the fiducial Line with the Side A B, and writedown, in your Memorial, the Quantity of the Angle B A C j afterwards turn the Index fo, that you may fee the Staff D thro' the Sights, and write down in your Memorial the Quantity of the Angle B AD : Again, turn the Index so that you may fee thro' the Sights the Staff E, and fet down the Quantity of the Angle BAE; but every time you look thro' the Sights, Care muff be taken that the Staff B is in a right Line with the Sights of the Diameter.

This being done, remove the Semi-Circle with it's Foot, and having replanted the Staffs, place the Semi-Circle, with it's Foot, in the Place of the Staff B, in such manner, that by looking thro' the fixed Sights of the Diameter* you may fee the Staff A -, and the Semi-circle remaining fixed in this Situation, turn, as you have already done, the Index so that you may fucceffively fee the Staffs C, D, E, and write down in the Memorial the Quantities of the Angles ABC, A B D, ABE.

Finally t Plot the Field exactly with a Semi-Circle or Protra&or, by laying down all the Angles, whose Quantities are marked at the Ends of the Line A B, from whence may be drawn as many right Lines, and from their Interfedlions other Lines, which will form the Plot of the Field proposed. The Lengths of all those Sides which have not been measured, may be found by a Scale of equal Parts, of which the Line A B is 50 4» and the Area of the Field may be found by finding the Area of all the Triangles it may be reduced into.

Note, It is.proper to measure one of the longeft Sides of the Field, for using it as a com- mon Base, and making at both it's Ends all the Obfervations neceiTary for there forming the Angles of the Triangles required to be made ; for if one of the fliorteft Lines be taken for a common Base to all the Triangles, the Angles formed by the Interfe&ions of the vifual Rays in looking at the Staffs, will be too acute, and so their Interjections very uncertain.

The Meridian Line of Plans may be known by help of the Compass, whose Meridian is generally parallel to the Diameter of the Semi-Circle : for since the common Base of all the Triangles observed, is parallel to the said Diameter, you need but note the Angle which it makes with the Needle of the Compass, and this may be eafily done by directing the fiducial Line parallel to the Needle ; after which you may draw upon the Plot a little Card in it's true Pofition.

their Distance ferving as a Base, place the Semi-Circle at one of them, as D, and the Staff in the other, as in the Point E, and turn it fo, that thro' the fixed Sights of it's Diameter, or thro' the Telescope, you may efpy the Staff E : then move the Index fo, that thro' it's Sights you may fee the Steeple A •, and the Degrees of the Semi-Circle between the Diameter and the Index, will give the Quantity of the Angle B D E, being in this Example 3 Deg. which note in your Memorial. Again •, turn the Index 'till you fee the Tower C thro' the Sights or Telescope, always keeping the Diameter in the Line D E ; then the Degrees between the Diameter and Index, will fhew the Quantity of the Angle CDE, 123 Deg. which hkewife note in the Memorial. Now having removed the Semi-Circle from the Station D, and placed a Staff in it's Place, measure the Distance from the Staff D to the Staff E, which suppose 32 Toifes, writing it in the Memorial : then put the Semi-Circle in the Place of the Staff E, so that the fixed Sights of the Diameter, or Telescope, may be in the Line ED; and turn the Index, that the Tower C may be feen thro' it's Sights, then the Degrees con- tained between the Diameter, and the Index, will give the Angle CE D, which in this Ex- ample is 26 Degrees. Finally, Turn the Index 'till you fee the Steeple A thro' the Sights, and the Angle A ED will be 125 Degrees, which fet down in the Memorial, and by help of a Scale and Protractor, the Distance A C may be known.

To folve the fame Problem trigonometrically ; first, We have found by Obfervation in the Triangle DAE, that the Angle A DE is 32 Degrees, and the Angle D E A 125 Degrees, whence the Angle DAE is 23 Degrees (because the three Angles of any right-lined Trian- gle, are equal to 2 right Angles), and to find the Side A E, make this Analogy : As the Sine of 23 Degrees is to 32 Toifes, So is the Sine of 32 Degrees to the Line AE, about 43 Toifes. Likewise you will find by Obfervation in the Triangle CDE, that the Angle C D E is 26 Degrees, and the Angle E D C 123 Degrees, whence the Angle D C E is 31 Degrees ; and to find the Side C E, make this second Analogy : As the Sine of 31 Degrees is to 32 Toifes, So is the Sine of 123 Degrees, or it's Complement $j, which is the fame, to C E 52 Toifes. Now to find the Distance C A, examine the Triangle C A E, whose two Sides C E, A E, with the included Angle A E C of 99 Degrees, are known, and confequently the Sum of the two unknown Angles are equal to 81 Degrees ; and to find either of them, make again this Analogy : As the Sum of the two known Sides 95 Toifes, is to their Difference 9, So is the Tangent of 40 Deg. 30 Min. half the Sum of the opposite Angles, to the Tangent of half their Distance, which anfwers to 4 Deg. 37 Min. and being added to 40 Deg. 30 Min. will give the greateft of the unknown Angles C AE, 45 Deg. 7 Min. and confequently the other Angle A CE, will be -$$ Deg. 53 Min. Laftly, to find the Length C A, fay, As the Sine of 35 Deg. $■$ Min. is to 43 Toifes, So is the Sine of ^ Deg. to the Distance A C, 72 Toifes, 2 Feet.

USE III. To find the Height of the Tower AB, whose Base cannot be approached be- caufe of a Rivulet parting by it's Foot ; chufe two Stations fomewhere upon level Ground, as in C and D, and place the Semi-Circle vertically in the Point D, so that it's Diameter may Fig. 8. be parallel to the Horizon, which you may do by means of a Thread and Plummet, hung on the Top of a Perpendicular drawn on the backfide of the Semi-Circle : then turn the Index, in order to fee the Top of the Tower B thro' the Sights, and take the Quantity of the Angle B D A, which suppose 42 Degrees, noting it down in your Memorial. Now having removed the Semi-Circle, and placed it at the other Station C, measure the Distance DC, which suppose 12 Toifes •, and after having adjufted the Semi-Circle, so that it's Dia- meter may be parallel to the Horizon, turn the Index 'till you fee the Top of the Tower B, and fet down the Quantity of the Angle PCD, which suppose 22 Degrees, in the Memo- rial ; then make a similar Figure by means of a Scale and Protractor, and the Height of the Tower A B will be found ; which may likewise be found by Calculation in the following man- ner : The Angle B D A of 42 Degrees, gives the Angle B D C of 1 38 Degrees ; and since the Angle C of 22 Degrees has been measured, the third Angle of the Triangle CBD will be 20 Degrees. Now fay, As the Sine of 20 Degrees is to 12 Toifes, So is the Sine of 22 De- crees, to the Line BD, about 13 Toifes; but B D is the Hypothenufe of the right-angled Triangle B D A, all the Angies of which are known : therefore fay by a second Rule of Three, As Radius is to about 13 Toifes, So is the Sine of 42 Degrees to the Height AB, 8 Toifes, and one Foot.

USE IV. To take the Map of a Country.

First, chufe 2 high Places, from whence a great Part of the Country may be feen, which Fig. 9* let be so remote from each other, as that their Distance may ferve as a common Base to fe- veral Triangles that muff be observed for making of the Map •, then measure with a Chain the Distance of these two Places. Thefe two Places being supposed A and B, dift ant from each other 200 Toifes, place the Plane of the Semi-Circle horizontally, with it's Foot in the Point A, in such manner, that you may difcover the Point B thro' the fixed Sights or Tele- fcope: the Instrument remaining fixed in this Situation, turn the Index, and fuccetTively difco- ver Towers, Steeples, Mills, Trees, and other remarkable Things defired to be placed in the Map: examine the Angles which every of them make with the common Base, and fet them down together with their proper Names in the Memorial : As, for Example, the Angle B A I 14 Degrees, B A G 47, B A H 53, B A F 68, B A E 83, B A D 107 ; and, lastly, the An- gle B A C 130 Degrees: which being done, and the Distance of the two Stations AB fet down, place the Semi-Circle in the Point B, for a second Station.

The Instrument being so placed that it's Diameter may be in the Line B A, turn the Index, and obferve the Angles made by the Objects before feen from the Point A ; as for Example, the Angle A B C 20 Degrees, ABF 37, A B D 44, A BE 56, ABG 83, ABH 96, and the Angle A B I 133 Degrees, which note down in the Memorial.

If any Object viewed from the Point A, cannot be feen from the Point B, the Base must be changed, and another Point fought, from whence it may be difcovered ; for it is abfo- lutely neceffary for the fame Object to be feen at both Stations, because it's Pofition cannot be had but by the Interferon of two Lines drawn from the Ends of the Base, with which they form a Triangle.

Note., The Base must be pretty long, in proportion to the Triangles for which it ferves, and moreover very ftraight and level.

To make the Map, reduce all those Triangles observed, to their juft Proportion, by means of a Scale and Protractor, in the manner as we have already given Directions, in the Use of the Theodolite.

Of the ConftriiElion and Use of the Compass.

TH I S Instrument is made of Brass, Ivory, Wood, or any other solid Matter, from 2 to Fig. O. 6 Inches in Diameter, being in figure of a Parallelopipedon, in the Middle of which is a round Box, at the Bottom of which is defcribed a Card (of which more in the Conftruction of the Sea-Compass) whose Circumference is divided into 360 Degrees. In the Center of this Card is fixed a well -pointed Brass or Steel Pivot, whose Use is to carry the touched Needle placed upon it, in Equilibria, so that it may freely turn. This Box is covered with a round Glass, for hindring left the Air fhould any wife agitate the Needle.

One of the Ends ot the Needle always turns towards the North Part of the World, but not exactly, it declining therefrom, and the other towards the South.

According to Obftrvations made in Oflober, in the Year i?i^, in the Royal Obfervatory, 'the Needle declined 2 Deg. 5 Min. Westwardly.

Needles are made of Pieces of Steel, the Length of the Diameter of the Box, having little Brass Caps foldered to their Middle, hollowed into a conical Figure fo, that the Needle being put upon the Pivot, may move very freely upon it, and not Tall off* they are nicely filed into different Figures, those which are large being like a Dart* and small ones have Rings to- wards one End, for knowing that End which refpects the North, as may be feen in the little Figures nigh the Compass.

To touch a Needle well, having first got a good Stone, begin your Touch near the Mid- dle of the Needle, and prefling it pretty hard hard upon the Pole of the Stone, draw it flowly along to the End of the Needle, and lifting your Hand a good Distance from the Stone, while you put the Needle forward again, begin a second Touch in the fame manner, and after that a third, which is enough, only take Care not to rub the Needle to and fro on the Stone, whereby the backward Rubs take away what Virtue the forward ones gave ; but lift it out of the Sphere of the Stone's Virtue, when you carry it forward again to begin a new Touch.

This admirable Property, by help of which great Sea- Voyages were first undertaken, and vafl Nations both in the East and West difcovered, was not known in Europe 'till about the Year 1260.

A Man by means of this Instrument, and a Map, may likewise go to any proposed Place, at Land, without enquiring of any body the way •, for he need but fet the Center of the Compass, upon the Place of Departure, on the Map, and afterwards caufe the Needle to agree with the Meridian of this Place upon the Map : then if he notes the Angle that the Line leading to the Place makes with the Meridian, he need but in travelling keep that An- gle with the Meridian, and that will direct him to the Place dtfired.

This Instrument is also very useful to People working in Quarries, and Mines under Ground ; for having noted upon the Ground the Point diredly over that you have a mind to go to, you must place the Compass at the Entrance into the Quarry or Mine, and obferve the Angle made by the Needle with the Line of Direction : then when you are under Ground, you must make a Trench, making an Angle with the Needle equal to the aforsaid Angle ; by means of which you may come to the proposed Place under Ground. There are several other Uses of this Instrument, the principal of which we are now going to fpeak.

U S E I. To take the Declination of a Wall with the Compass.

You must remember that there are 4 Points, called Cardinal ones, viz. North, South, East, and West, dividing the Horizon into 4 equal Parts, and when one of these Points are found, all the others may likewise : for if you have North before you, South will be behind, East on the right-hand, and West on the left.

A Wall built upon a Line tending from North to South, will be in the Plane of the Meri- dian ; so that one Side thereof will face the East, and the other the West.

Another Wall, at right Angles with the former, that is, one built upon the Line of East and West, will be parallel to the Prime Vertical, and will not decline at all, and one of it's Sides will, be directly South, and the other North. Fig. io. But if a Wall is supposed to be built upon the Line DE, it is said to decline as many De-

grees as is contained in the Arc F ; therefore if, for Example, that Arc be 40 Degrees, the Side of the Wall facing towards the South, declines from the South towards the East 40 Degrees, and the opposite Side of the Wall will decline from the North towards the West 40 Degrees : so that the Declination of a Wall, is no more than the Angle made by the Wall and the Prime Vertical. Another Wall parallel to the Line G H, will decline as many De- grees as is contained in the Arc C; therefore if that Arc be 30 Degrees, the Side of the Wall refpecting the South, will decline 30 Degrees from the South towards the West, and the other Side will decline 30 Degrees from the North to the East.

In all Operations made with a Compass, you must take care of bringing it nigh Iron or Steel, and that there be none concealed j for Iron or Steel entirely changes the Direction of the Needle.

I suppose here that the Pivot, upon which the Cap of the Needle is put, is in the Center of a Circle divided into 360 Degrees, or four Nineties, whose first Degree begins from the Meridian Line, and also that the Compass be square, as that which is reprefented in the Figure.

Apply the Side of the Compass where the North is marked, to the Side of the Wall j then the Number of Degrees over which the Needle fixes, will be the Wail's Declination, and on that Side. If, for Example, the North Point of the Needle tends towards the Wall, it is a fign that that Side of the Wall may be fhone on by the Sun at Noon •, and if the Needle fixes over 30 Degrees, counting from the North towards the East, the Declination is so many Degrees from South towards the East. If it fixes over 30 Degrees from the North towards the West, the Declination of the Needle will be so many Degrees from the South towards the West.

But since the Declination of the Needle is at Paris 12 Deg. 15 Min. N. W. for correcting that Defect, 12 Deg. 15 Min. must always be added to the Degrees fhown by the Needle, when the Declination of the Wall is towards the East ; and, on the contrary, when the Decli- nation is towards the West, the Declination of the Needle must be fubftracted.

As supposing, as we have already done, that the Needle fixes over the 30th Degree towards the East, the Declination of the Wall will be 42 Deg. 15 Min. from the South towards the East ; but if the Needle fixes on the West-side of the Wall, over the 30th Degree, the Decli- nation will be 17 Deg. 45 Min. from the South towards the West.

If the South Point of the Needle tends towards the Wall, it is a Sign that the South is on the other Side of the Wall, and confequently that Side of the Wall, whose Declination is to be found, will not be fhone upon by the Sun at Noon-, whence it's Declination will be from the North towards the East: or West, according as it faces towards those Parts of the World* This will be more fully explained in the Treatife of Dialling.

USE II. To take an Angle with the Compass \

Let the Angle D A E be proposed to be measured ; apply that Side of the Compass, where Fig. 1 t . the North is marked, to one of the Lines forming the Angle, as A D : so that the Needle may freely turn upon it's Pivot, arid when it Rests, obferve what Number the North Point of the Needle ftands over \ and finding it, for Example, 80 Degrees, the Declination of the said Line will be so many Degrees. Afterwards take, in the fame manner, the Declination of the Line A E, which suppose 215 Degrees: fubftract 80 Degrees from 215 Degrees, there will remain 135, which fubftract from 180, and there will remain 45 Degrees, the Quantity of the Angle proposed to be measured.

But if the Declination of the Line A D had been, for example, but 30 Degrees, and the Line AE 265 Degrees, the Difference of those two Declinations, which would be 235 De- crees, would be too great to fubftract from 180 Degrees •, whence in this Cafe 180 Degrees must be taken from 235 Degrees, and the Remainder 55 Degrees, will be the Angle pro* pofed.

When Angles are measured with the Compass, there need not any regard be had to the Variation of the Needle, because the Variation will always be the fame in all the different Pofitions of the Needle, provided at all times there be no Iron near it : and when the Com- pass cannot be put nigh the Plane, by means of some Impediment, it is fufrkient to place it parallel, as the Figure fhews, and the Effect will be the fame.

USE III. To take the Plot of a FoRest, or Morafs.

Let it be required to take the Plot of the Morafs ABCDE, in which one may enter. Fig. 12. To make these kinds of Operations, there must be faftened two Sights to the Meridian Line of the Compass ; now plant long Staffs upright, so that they may be in Lines parallel to the Sides encompafling the Morafs, and place the Compass upon it's Foot in a horizontal Pofition : then look at two of the Staffs thro' the Sights, putting always the Eye to that which is on the South Side of the Compass ; and having drawn a Figure upon Paper fomething reprefent- ing the Plot of the Morafs, write upon the correfpondent Line the Number of Degrees which the Needle, when fixed fhews. At the fame time measure the Length of each Side of the Morafs, and fet down their Lengths upon the correfpondent Lines of your Memorial. When you have gone round the Morafs, the Degrees denoted by the Needle, will ferve to form the Angles of the Figure, and the Length of each Line will determine the Plot of the Morafs proposed.

Let us suppose, for Example, that having placed the Compass along the Side A B, or which is all one, along a Line parallel to that Side, and placing the Eye next to the South Sight of the two Sights, two Staffs fet up in that Line are efpied. If the Needle fixes on the 30th Degree towards the East, fet down the Number 30 upon the Line A B in the Memorial, and also 50 Toifes, the Length of the Side AB : afterwards fet the Compass, with it's Foot, along the Side B C, or in the Direction of the Staffs, putting always the Eye next the South Sight. If the Needle fixes on the 100th Degree, I write that Number on the Line B C, and at the fame time 70 Toifes, the Length of the Side B C : doing thus quite round the Mo- rafs, you may fet down upon each correfpondent Line of the Memorial, the Numbers of De- grees and Toifes ; by means of which, the Plot may be drawn in the following manner, by help of a Scale and Protractor.

Set down, one after the other, all the Angles observed with the Compass, and fubftrafl the leafi from it's next greater, as in this Table.

Draw the Indefinite Line A B, of 50 equal Parts, reprefenting the 50 Toifes measured ; make the exterior Angle at the Point B 70 Degrees, and draw the indefinite Line B C, on which lay off 70 Toifes from B to C. Make at the Point C an exterior Angle of 30 Degrees, and draw the indefinite Line CD, whose Length let be 65 Toifes, conformable to the Length measured. Make likewise at the Point D an exterior Angle of no Degrees, and draw the Line DE of 70 Toifes. Laftly, Make an exterior Angle of 60 Degrees at the Point E, draw the Line A E of 94 Toifes, and the Plot will be compleated.

Note, All the Angles of the Figure taken together, ought to make twice as many right Angles, wanting 2, as the Figure has Sides : As, for Example, the Figure of this Use, hav- ing 5 Sides, all the Angles added together make 540 Degrees, or 6 times 90, which may ferve to prove Operations.

This Manner of taking Plots is expeditious enough, but it is very difficult to make Ope- rations exael with a Compass, because there may be Iron concealed nigh the Places whereat a body is obliged to place the Instrument.

CHAP. VIII.

The Uses of the aforsaid Instruments^ applied to the Fortification of Places.

Plate 13. r^Ortification is the Art of putting a Place into such a State, that a small Body of Troops fj therein may advantageoufly refill a confiderable Army.

The Maxims ferving as a Foundation to the Art of Fortification, are certain general Rules cflablifhed by Engineers, founded upon Reason and Experience.

The chief Engineer having examined the Extent and Situation of the Place to'be fortified, communicates hisDesign in a Plane and Profil, as may be ken in Plate 13. to which he com- monly adds aDiscourse, orderly explaining the Materials employed by the Undertakers: and having fearched the Ground in several Parts of the Place propoled, makes a Computation of each Toife of Work, by means of which the Engineer may nighly eftimate the Charge of the whole Work, the Number of Workmen necefiary to perfect it, and alio the Time it will be done in.

The Plane of a Fortification reprefents, by several Lines drawn horizontally, the Inclofure of a Place.

This Design contains several Lines drawn parallel to one another ; but the fir 11 and princi- pal Track, which ought to be marked by a Line more apparent than the others, reprefents the chief Inclofure of the Body of the Place between the Rampart and the Ditch ; so that by the Plan and it's Scale, the Lengths and Breadths of all the Works compofing the Fortification may be known. (Fig. 1.)

The Profil reprefents the principal Tracks appearing upon a plane Surface vertically cutting and feparating all the Works thro' the Middle. There is commonly a larger Scale to draw it, than to draw a Plan, for better distinguishing their Breadths, Heights, or Depths (as ap- pears in Fig. 3.).

The Names of the chief Lines, and principal Angles, forming the Plane.

Fig. 1. The Line A B, is called the exterior Side of the Polygon, and L M the interior Side

thereof.

L G the Demi-gorge of the Baltion, of which E G is the Flank, A E the Face, and A L the Capital.

G H is the Courtain, and A H the Line of Defence Razant.

The Figure ALGE reprefents a Demi-Baftion.

The Angle A N B is the Angle of the Center.

The Angle K AB is the Angle of the Polygon.

The Angle I AE, made by the two Faces, is the flanquant Angle, or Angle of the Baflion.

The Angle AEG made by the Face and the Flank, is called the Angle of the Shoulder.

The Angle E G H, made by the Flank and the Courtain, is called the Angle of the Flank.

The Angle EGB, made by the Flank and the Line of Defence, is called the interior flan- quant Angle.

The Angle EDF, made by the two Razant Lines interfering one another towards the Mid- dle of the Courtain, is called the exterior flanquant Angle, or Angle of the Tcnaille.

The Angle E H G, made by the Courtain and Line of Defence Razant, is called the di- minifhed Angle, which is always equal to that made by the Face of the Baflion and the Base, or exterior Side.

Fundamental Maxims of Fortification.

The principal Maxims may be reduced to fix.

I. Every Side round about a Place, mull be flanked or defended with Flanks -, for if there be any Side about a Place not feen or defended by the Befieged, the Enemy may there lodge themfelves, and become Mailers of the Place in a fhort time.

It follows from this Maxim, that the flanquant Angle, or the Angle made by the Faces of the Baftion, being too acute, is defective, because it's Point may eafily be blunted or broken by the Cannon of the Befiegers, and afterwards Miners may there work fafe in widening of the Breach.

It is also a like Fault to round the Points of Baftions, for the fame Reason.

II. The Force, as much as poflible, must be equally diftributed every where, for if there be any Side weaker than the Rest, that will be it which the Enemy will attack ; therefore if from the Nature of the Ground, one Side be weaker than the others, ibme Work must be there added to augment it's Force, in multiplying it's Defence.

III. The flanquant Parts must be no further remote from those which flank them, than a Mulquet-fhot will do Execution ; therefore the Line of Defence, or the Distance from the Point of a Baftion to it's neighbouring Baftions, ought not much to exceed 125 Toifes, which js the Distance that a Mufquet, well charged, will do Execution.

IV. The Flanks of Baftions must be large enough to contain at least 30 Soldiers in Front* and a or 5 Pieces of Cannon mounted on their Carriages, in order to defend well the Face of the Baftion attacked by the Enemy •, and since the principal Defence arifes from Flanks, it is more proper for them to be perpendicular to the Line of Defence, than to have any other Situation. This Method was affigned by Count Pagan, and has been followed by the ableft Engineers since his Time, and particularly by Monfieur Vauban, who, by his Angular Services, merited the Efteem of all warlike Nations, and able Engineers of his Time.

V. The Fortrefs must not be commanded by any Side out of the reach of Fire-Arms, which are Mufquets and Cannon ; but, on the contrary, it ought to command all Places round about.

VI. The Works nigheft the Center, must be higheft, and command those Places more distant, so that when the Enemy endeavour to make themfelves Matters of some Outwork* they may be repulfed by those in the Body of the Place.

To draw upon Paper a fortified Plane, according to the Method of Count Pagan.

Let it be, for Example, an Hexagon : first draw the Line AB 180 Toifes, for the exte- Fig. 1. rior Side of the Hexagon, and raife the Perpendicular CD from the Point C of 30 Toifes, then draw the Lines A D H, B D G, interfering each other in the Point D, and take 55 Toifes from your Scale, to determine the Length of the Faces A E, B F : from the Point E draw the Flank E G, making a right Angle in the Point G, at the End of the Line of De- fence B G, and likewise the other Flank F H at right Angles to A H : finally, draw the Courtain G PI, and you will have one Side of the Hexagon fortified. The other Sides are fortified in the fame manner. About this Side of the Polygon thus fortified, you must draw a Ditch, reprefented by the Lines AC, C B, parallel to the Faces of the Baftions, meeting each other towards the Middle of the Courtain in the Point C. This Ditch ought to be 20 Toifes in Breadth, and 3 Toifes deep. The Ground taken out in making of the Ditch, ferves to form the Kainpart with it's Parapet, and the Glacis of the Covered Way, preferving the fineft for the Parapet of the Body of the Place, and the Covered Way -, for if the Ground be ftony, Cannon-Balis, coming from the Befiegers against Parapets made with it, will make the Stones fly about, and annoy the Soldiers defending the Body of the Place. On the contrary, when the Ground is fine, the Bullets will but make Holes, and enter therein, provided Parapets have Breadth enough to deaden them : by Experience it is found, that Parapets must confift of well-rammed Earth at least 20 Foot thick, to be Proof against Cannon.

The Parapet is made upon the Rampart 24 Feet broad, containing the Banqu tte, or little Bank, made parallel to the Faces, Flanks, and Courtains, forming the Inclofure of the Place.

The Base of the Rampart is 15 Toifes broad, and is made parallel to the Courtains only, to the End that the Baftions may be full, and that there may be there found Earth in cafe of need, to make an Intrenchment.

When any Baftion is left open, a Mine must be made therein well arched, Bomb proof, and covered with Ground well rammed, and it must be endeavoured to be made so that the Rain-Water cannot get into it, to the End that Provifions put therein, may be preferved from time to time.

The Covered Way is made parallel without the Ditch, about 5 Toifes broad, and upon it there is a Parapet made 6 Foot high, and a Banquette, at the Foot of the said Parapet, 3 Foot broad, and a Foot and a half high, so that Soldiers may commodioufly use their Arms on the Top of the Parapet, whose Top must be floped, that is, having a Defcent or Slope going down 20 or 30 Toifes into the Country.

There must be no hollow Places about this Slope, for the Enemy to cover themfelves in ; therefore when an Engineer vifits the Fortification of a Place, it is requifite for him to examine the adjacent Parts, and have the hollow Places filled up, at least within the reach of a Muf- quet-fhot from the Covered Way ; and also to have all Places too high levelled, that so those which defend the Place, may difcover all the adjacent Parts.

which lay off from O to Q^, for denoting the Base of the Rampart * then lay off 20 Toifes from O to R, for the Breadth of the Ditch, over-against one of the Faces of the Baftion, for it is wider over-against the Courtain : lay off 5 Toifes from R to P, for the Breadth of the Covered Way ; and lastly, 20 or 30 Toifes from P to N, for the Base of the Glacis. Note* The longer the Base of the Glacis is made, the better will it be.

After having determined the Breadths or Thickneffes ; the Heights above the Level of the Country, and Depths below, must be as follows.

Take 3 Toifes from your Scale, and raife from the Points O, Q^, Perpendiculars of that Height, for raifing above the Level of the Country the Platform of the Rampart, whereof O S is the interior Talud, or Slope, going up from the City to the Platform of the Ram- part S T ; which Platform ought to be 6 or 7 Toifes broad, that so Cannon may be commo- dioufly used thereon, as also the other neceffary Munitions for the Defence of the Place.

Note, The Rifing of the Rampart ought to be very eafy over-against the Gorge of the Baftions, for Coaches to go eafily there up and down it.

The Base of the Talud O Z, is made with new-dug Earth, equal to the Height all along the Courtains -, as if the Height be 3 Toifes, the Base of the Slope must be also 3 Toifes.

But at the Entry of the Baftions, the Base must be at least twice the Height •, that is, if the Height of the Slope be 3 Toifes, the Base of it must be at least 6 or 8 Toifes, for Coaches to go up it.

When the Rampart is formed, and the Earth fufficiently raifed upon it, which cannot be done but with Time and Precaution, in well ramming it every 2 Feet in Height, and laying Fafcines to keep it together ; a Parapet is made upon the Earth of the Rampart, 6 Feet of interior Height, and 4 Feet of exterior Lleight (for the Top of the Earth to have a Declivity), to difcover any thing beyond the Ditch, and being mounted upon the Banquette, the Covered Way may be feen, and defended in cafe of Need.

The Base of the Parapet X Y, ought to be about 4 Toifes broad, to the End that the Top thereof may be at least 20 Feet broad. At the Bottom of the interior Slope of the Parapet, there is made a little Bank 3 Feet wide, and a Foot and a half high, so that the Parapet will be 4 4 Feet above the Bank, which is fufficient for Soldiers to use their Fire- Arms on the Top thereof.

Care must be taken to lay Beds of Fafcines every Foot in height, between the Earth of the Parapet •, and in order to keep the Earth of the said Parapet from crumbling, it is covered with Grafs-Turfs, cut with a Turfing-Iron, from some neighbouring Common, about 15 Inches long, and 10 broad.

Now to lay these Turfs, you must place the first Bed, or Row of them, very level all along the Distance of several Toifes, and then lay the Turfs of the second Bed fo, that the Joints of the first may be covered with them, and the Joints of the second likewne covered with the Joints of the third, &c. that so they may all make a good joining.

It is fufficient to give 2 Inches of Declivity to one Foot in height, for the interior Slope % and about 4 Inches to one Foot in height, for the exterior Slope of the Parapet. Note, There ought to be Gardiners to cut and lay the Turfs.

At the Foot of the exterior Slope of the Parapet and the Rampart, there is left a little Berm (marked Qj, about 4 Feet wide, for retaining the loofe Ground falling down from the Slope.

Q^B reprefents the inward Slope of the Ditch, which is 3 Toifes deep, and BK is the ex- terior Slope. If the Ground be brittle, they must have more Slope given them, for hindering it's falling to the Bottom of the Ditch. The Line K P reprefents the Platform of the Covered Way, which must be 5 Toifes broad. P A reprefents the Parapet of the Covered Way, with it's Banquette at the Foot thereof. The whole must be 6 Feet high, for covering those which are on the Covered Way.

The fuperior Slope of the Slope A N, ought to be made of fine Earth, the Stones in which, if there be any, must be taken away with an Iron Rake, and buried at the Foot of the Slope, so that Cannon Balls fhot from the Enemy upon the Covered Way, may enter therein, without making the broken Pieces of the Stones fly about upon the Covered Way.

To lay off the Plan of a Fortification upon the Ground.

Let, for Example, the Plan of the first Figure be proposed to be drawn upon the Ground.

Inftead of a Scale and Compasses, there must be used Staffs, the Toife, and Lines ; there- Fore, after having well examined the Ground, and confidered where the Gates and Baftions must be made, which are commonly in the Middle of the Courtains, long Staffs must first be placed, where the flanquant Angles of the Baftions are intended to be.

Now having planted a long Staff upright, in the Place fixed on for the Point of the Ba- ftion (marked A), measure very exactly, with a Toife, or Chain, 90 Toifes ; at the End of which plant a Staff (marked C) : from the Point C continue that Line 90 Toifes more ; at the End of which plant another Staff, which will be the Point of the Baftion B. In the mean time you are measuring with Chains or Lines, some Workmen mud follow, and make a little Trench from Staff to Staff, before the Lines are taken away.

After which, a Perpendicular must be drawn from the Staff C, to the Track A C B.

To draw the said Perpendicular, measure two or three Toifes from C to A, where plant a Staff; measure likewise from C towards B an equal Number of Toifes* at the End of which plant a second Staff: Take two Lines very equal, and having made Loops in the two Ends of each of them, put those Loops about each of the Staffs, and holding the two other Ends of the Lines in your Hands, ftretch them 'till they join upon the Ground, and in their point of Junction plant a third Staff. Laftly, Faften a Line tight to the Point C, and that third Staff, by which make a Track, which will be perpendicular to the Line A C B.

Meafure 30 Toifes from the Point C along the Track, at the End of which plant another Staff very upright, which will fhew the Point D of the Plan. Return to the Staff A, from which to the Staff D make a Track ; along which from the Point A measure 55 Toifes to- wards D, for the Face of the Baftion A E ; plant a Staff in the Point E, for denoting the Angle de VEpaule.

Go to the Point B, and there make the fame Operations for drawing the Face B F, and plant a Staff at the Angle de VEpaule F.

Produce B F from D, towards G •, and also A E from D towards H ; then measure with the Scale of the Plane the Lines D G, D H, and lay off their Lengths on the Ground from D to G, and from G to H, where plant Staffs : After which it will be eafy to draw the Flanks EG, FH, and the Courtain G H.

By this means you will have one Front of a fortified Place, drawn on the Ground j the others may be drawn in the fame manner by Staffs and Lines.

Note, It will not be improper to examine with a Semi-Circle, or other such Instrument 9 whether the Angles drawn upon the Ground are equal to those taken off of the Plane, and to rectify them before the Works are begun.

Care must likewise from time to time be taken, that the Tracks are followed ; for without these Precautions there will fometimes happen great Deformities.

Of the ConflruEfion of the Outworks.

The Outworks of a Fortification, are those Works made without the Ditch of a fortified Place, to cover it and augment it's Defence.

The most ordinary kinds of these Works, are the Ravelins or Half- Moons, which are formed between the two Baftions upon the Flanquant Angle of the Counterfcarp, and before the Courtain, for covering the Gates and Bridges commonly made in the Middle of the Cour- tains, as the Figures P P fhow.

The Ravelins are compofed of two Faces furniftied with one or two little Banks, and a good Parapet raifed on the Side next the Country ; and two Demigorges, without a Parapet, on the Side next to the Place, with an Entrance and Slope for mounting the great Ditch on the Platform of the Ravelin.

In each Ravelin there is built a Guard-Houfe, to fhelter the Soldiers neceffary for it's De- fence, from the Injuries of Weather •, but it is proper for the Guard-Houfe to be built in form of a Redoubt, with Battlements all round, for the Soldiers, in cafe of being attacked* to retire in, and obtain some Capitulation, before they lay down their Arms.

To draw a Ravelin before a Courtain, open your Compasses the Length of the interior Side of the Polygon, and having fixed one of the Points in one of the Ends of the Line, with the other Point defcribe an Arc without the Counterfcarp ; likewise fet one Foot of the Compasses in the other End of the interior Side, and with the other Point defcribe a second Arc, cutting the first in a Point, which will be the Point or Flanquant Angle of the Ravelin: then lay a Ruler on the aforsaid Interferon, and upon each of the Ends of the interior Side of the Po- lygon, for drawing the Faces of the Ravelin, which will terminate to the Right and Left up- on the Edge of the Counterfcarp. The two Demigorges are" drawn from the End of each Face, to the Rentrant Angle of the Counterfcarp.

But that the Flanquant Angle may not be too acute, it's Capital R S must be but about 40 Toifes-, and proceed with the Rest, as before.

Sometimes a similar Work is made before the Point of a Baftion ; and since it's Gorge is built upon the Edge of the Counterfcarp, which is commonly rounded over-against the Point of the Baftions, this Work is called a Half-Moon (because it's Gorge is in the Form of an Arc) : They are very often confounded, and the greateft Part of the Soldiers give, without diftincYion, the Name of Half-Moons to Ravelins made before the Courtains.

The Defe£t of this Work is, that it is too distant from the Flanks of the Baftions, for being fufHciently defended by them ; therefore a Half- Moon must not be made before the Point of a Baftion, unlefs at the lame time there arc made other Out- Works to theRight and Left before the adjacent Courtains, to defend it.

It is proper lor these Works to be lined with Walls, as well as the Body of the Place •, for when they are rot, the Ground must have lb great a Slope, that it will be eafy to mount the Works.

In the mean time the new-dug Earth the Works are made with, must fettle at least a Year or two before the Walls are built, to the End that the Walls may not be thrown down by it after they are built.

Conflruclion of the Hornworks.

Fig. 3. Thefe kind of Works are commonly made before the Courtains, and because the Expence

in making them is greater than the Expence in making the Ravelins, they are not made with- out abfolute neceffity ; they ferve to cover some Side of the Place, weaker than the others ; they likewise ferve to occupy an Height, which cannot be done by Perfons inclofed in the Body of the Place.

Now to draw a Hornwork, first raife the Indefinite Perpendicular 1, 2, on the Middle of the Courtain ; and to this Line draw two Parallels 3, 4, and 5, 6, from the Angles of the Shoulders. Thefe two Parallels, which are called the Wings of the Hornwork, ought to draw their defence from the Faces of the Baftions ; whence their Length ought not much to exceed 120 Toifes, counting from the Shoulders. Thro' the Ends of the Wings draw the Line 4, 6, which will be the exterior Side of the Hornwork, and is divided into two equal Parts in the Point 7, by the Perpendicular 1,2; then take half that exterior Side in your Com- passes, and lay it off upon the Sides, from 4 to 8, and from 6 to 9 ; draw the Lines 4, 9, and 6, 8, which interfering one another in the Point 10, will form the Angle of the Tenaille y that reprefents a Work called the Simple Tenaille, which is common enough made before the Courtaihs, with a little Ravelin without the Ditch, between the two Saliant Angles, and over- against the Middle of the Rentrant Angle.

But to ft rengthen this Work, there is added thereto two Demi-baftions, and a Courtain be- tween them; which is better than two fimple Rentrant Angles.

To draw the Demi-baftions, bifect the Line 4, 10, in the Point n •, and likewise the Line 10, 6, in the Point 12-, then from the Points 11 and 12, draw to the Middle of the Cour- tain of the Place, as at the Point 1, the occult Lines 121, m, by which means will be had the little Courtain 13 14 of the Hornwork, the two Flanks 11 13, 12 14, and the two Faces 114, 126.

The Sides of these Works, which are next to the Country (as the Demi-baftions, the Courtain, and the Wings of the Hornwork are), ought to be furnifhed with a good Parapet of fine Earth well rammed, 18 or 20 Feet thick, and 6 Feet high before, containing a Ban- quette^ like that in the Body of a Place ; obferving at all times, that the Parapets of the "Works nigher the Center of the Place, must be higher above the Level of the Country, than those Works more distant; to the End that when the Befiegers have made themfelves Mafters of some Outwork, the Befieged, defending the Body of the Place, feeing them altogether uncovered, may diflodge them therefrom.

Thefe Parapets ought to be fuftained by a Rampart, whose Platform having a Banquette, is three or four Toifes wide •, but when Earth is wanting, we must be content to make llveral little Banks upon one another eijghteen Inches high, and three or four Feet broad ; and the Parapet ought to be about 4 7 Feet above the higheft Bank, for covering the Soldiers : the Top of the Parapet must be floped, gradually defcending towards the Country, so that the Befieged may fee the Enemy.

The parts of those Works, which are next the Place, must be without a Parapet, and only inclofed with a fingle Wall, or a Row of Palifadoes, to avoid the Surprizes of the Enemy. It is on this side that a Gate must be (for a Communication from the Works to the Body of the Place); as also a Guard-Houfe, for covering the Soldiers defigned for it's defence.

All these Works ought to be environed with a Ditch 10 or 12 Toifes broad, communicat- ing with the Ditch of the Body of the Place, and also as deep.

On the outfide of that Ditch is made a Covered Way five or fix Toifes broad, with a Pa- rapet, and it's Bank, commonly furnifhed with an enclofure of strong Palifadoes, drove 4 or 5 Feet into the Ground. The Top of that Parapet must be floped next to the Country, and if it can be produced 20 or 30 Toifes it will be better : for a Slope (or Glacis) cannot be too long \ because, by means thereof, the Enemy cannot approach the Body of the Place, with- out being difcovered.

The Outworks of which we have fpoken, are the most common ones : There are many other forts of them, which we shall not mention, it requiring a great Volume.

How to measure the Works of Fortifications.

The Ground of which the Ramparts and Parapets are formed, is generally taken out of the Ditches made about the Place ; to know the Quantity of which, measure the Cavity of the Ditches, and reduce it to Cubic Toifes. As, for example, If the Ditch over-against the Face of a Baftion, be 50 Toifes long, 20 broad, and 4 deep •, multiply the Length by the Breadth, and the Product will be 1000 square Toifes, which multiplied by 4 the Depth, and there will arife 4000 Cubic Toifes.

Note, That since there is a Neceffity to give the Ground a great Slope, to keep it from crumbling to the Bottom, the Ditch will be wider at the Top than at the Bottom ; whence, if a Ditch be 20 Feet broad in the Middle of it's Depth, at the Top it must at least be 2.1 Toifes broad, and j8 Toifes at the Bottom : Thole 22 Toifes added to 18, make 40, whose half 20, is the mean Breadth to be used.

The Stone, or Brick- work, keeping together the Earth, ought to have thickness propor- tionable to it's height, and also about a Foot in Talud or Slope, the Fleight of every Toife.

If, for Example, a Wall be built to fuftain the Earth of the Rampart of a Place, and it is 6 Toifes high, the least thickness that can be given to that height, at the Top, must be 3 Feet, and at the Bottom, juft above the Foundation, 9 Feet, because of it's Talud of 1 Foot every Toife in height: Now these two thicknefies, 9 and 3 make 12, whose half 6 Feet is the mean thickness of the Wall; and, confequently, to line the Face of a Baftion, 50 Toifes long, 6 Toifes high, and one Toife of mean thickness, there must be 300 Cubic Toifes of Walling, excluding the Foundation, which cannot be determined without knowing the Ground. Besides t h i s &gt; there are commonly made Counter-Forts for fuftaining the Earth, and hindering it's preffing too much against the Walls. Thefe Counter-Forts ought to be funk in firm Ground, and enter in the dug Earth, at least a Toife ; they are 7 or 8 Feet broad at the Root, that is, on the Side where they are faftened to the Wall, and 4 or 5 Feet at the End, going into the Earth of the Rampart, which amounts to one Toife of Sur- face, in supposing (as we have already) that the Root is 7 Feet, and the End going into the Earth of the Rampart 5 Feet, which makes 12 Feet, half of which being 6, is the mean thickness ; and supposing them 4 Toifes in height, one with another, each will be 4 Cubic Toifes : and since there ought to be 10 in the Extent of 50 Toifes, the Stone, or Brick- Work of 10 Counter-Forts will be 40 Cubic Toifes : So that there will be about 1000 Cubic Toifes to wall the two Faces, and the Flanks of a Baftion, and to wall a Courtain, 80 Toifes in length, there must be about 600 Cubic Toifes of Stone, or Brick- Work; whence the Wall- ing lor the whole Place may be eafily computed.

Note, It is better to make an Eftimation too great, than too little.

It remains that we fay fomething of the Carpenters Toife, required to conftruct Bridges and Gates, and other Works of the like Nature.

In measuring of Timber, we reduce it to Solives.

A Solive is a Piece of Timber 12 Feet long, and 36 Inches in furface ; that is, 6 Inches broad, and 6 thick, which makes 3 Cubic Feet of Timber, being the seventy second Part of a Cubic Toife.

We mail give here two Ways of Calculation, to the End that the one may prove the other.

The first is, to reduce the Bignefs of the Piece of Timber into Inches, that is, the Inches of it's Breadth and Thicknefs, and after having multiplied these two Quantities by one an^ other, the Product must be multiplied by the Toifes, Feet and Inches of it's Length, which last Product being divided by 72, the Quotient will give the Number of Solives contained in the Piece of Timber.

The Reason o f this is, because 72 Pieces, 1 Inch Base, and a Toife long, make a Solive.

Suppose, for Example, a great Piece of Timber is to be reduced to Solives, whose length is 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches, and 12 by 15 Inches Base; multiply 15 by 12, the Product is 180 square Inches, which again multiplied by 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches, and the Product 495, divided by 12, will give 6 - g Solives.

The second Method is founded upon this, that a Solive contains 3 Cubic Feet.

As, for Example, If a Piece of Timber (the fame as before) be 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches long, and Base be 12 by 15 Inches; multiplying 12 by 15, the Product will be 180 square Inches-, the \ith Part of that Number, which is 15, being confidered as Feet, makes 2 Toifes 3 Feet, which, multiplied by the Length 2 Toifes, 4 Feet, 6 Inches, make 6 Solives, 5 Feet, and 3 Inches : So that there wants but 9 Inches, or the eighth Part of a Toife, to make 7 Solives, as in the Calculation of the first Method.

about 12 or 14 Inches in Diameter, whose Limb is divided into 360 Degrees, and A each- Degree into as many Minutes, either Diagonally, or otherwise, as the largenefs of the Instrument will admit.

Underneath, at the Places c c of this Circle, are fixed two little Pillars d d, for fupporting an Axis, upon which is fixed a Telescope, with a square Brass Tube, having two GlafTes therein, for better perceiving Objects at a great distance ; whence this Telescope may be raifed or lowered, according as Objects be Horizontal or not. The Ends of the aforsaid Pillars are joined by the Piece gg, upon the Middle of which is foldered a Socket with it's Screw, for receiving the Top of the Ball and Socket E. Upon and about the Center of the

Fig. C. Circle B, must the Index C move, which is a Circular Brass Plate, having upon the Middle

thereof a Box and Needle, orCompass, whose Meridian Line anfwers to the Fiducial Line a a. At the Places bb of the Index are fixed two little Pillars for fupporting an Axis, carry- ing a Telescope in the Middle thereof, whose Line of Collimation must be anfwerable to the Fiducial Line a a of the Index. This Telescope hath a square Brass Tube, and two GlafTes therein, and may be raifed or lowered, like that beforementioned. At each End of one of the perpendicular Sides of each Tube of the Telescopes, are fixed four small Sights for view- ing nigh Objects thorough them.

The Ends of the Index a a are cut Circular, so as to fit the Divisions upon the Limb of the Circle B, and when the said Limb B is Diagonally divided, the Fiducial Line at one End cf the Index fhews the Degrees and Minutes upon the Limb. But when the Limb is only divided into Degrees, and every 30th Minute, we have a much better Contrivance for find- ing, the Degrees, and every 2 Minutes upon the Limb, which is thus : Let the half Arc p a of one End of the Index contain exactly 8 Degrees of the Limb •, then divide the said half Arc into 15 equal Parts, at every five of which fet the Numbers 10, 20, 30, beginning from the Fiducial Line or middle of the Index. Now each of these equal Parts will be 32 Minutes : Therefore if you have a mind to fet the Fiducial Line of the Index to any Num- ber of Degrees, and every 2 Minutes upon the Limb •, for Example, to 40 Degrees 10 Mi- nutes ; move the Index fo, the Fiducial Line being between the 40th Degree, and the 40th Degree and 30 Minutes, that the Line of Division, numbered 10 upon the Index, may ex- actly fall upon some Line of Division of the Limb ; and then the Fiducial Line will fhew 40 Degrees, 10 Minutes.

Again : Suppose the Fiducial Line being between the 50th Degree and 30 Minutes, and the 51ft, then that Line of Division, of equal Parts on the Index, exactly falling upon fome Line of the Divisions of the Limb, will give the even Minutes above 50 Degrees 30 Minutes the Fiducial Line ftands at. As suppose the 4th Line of Division of the Index Hands exactly against some Line of Division of the Limb; then the Minutes above 40 Degrees 30 Minutes will be 8, that the Fiducial Line ftands at : Underftand the fame of others.

Fig. D. is the Brass Ball and Socket, in which goes the Plead of the three-legged Staff E, for fupporting the Instrument when using : Thefe three Legs are moveable by means of Joints, and may be taken fhorter by half at the Places a a a y by means of Screws, for better conveniency of Carriage.

Thus have you the beft Theodolite, as now made in England * briefly defcribed. The Use thereof will be fufficiently underftood by what our Author fays of the Use of the Semi-Circle (which is but half a Theodolite), and I in the Use of the Plain-Table, and Circumferentor.

Note, There are some Theodolites that have no Telescopes, but only 4 Perpendicular Sights 5 two being faftened upon the Limb, and two upon the Ends of the Index. Note likewise, That the Index, and Box and Needle, or Compass of the Theodolite, will ferve for a Cir- cumferentor.

TH E Table itfclf is a Parallelogram of Oak, or other Wood, about 15 Inches long, Fig. F. and 12 broad, confiding of two several Boards, round which are Ledges of the fame Wood •, the two opposite of which being taken off, and the Spangle unfkrewed from the Bot- tom, the aforsaid two Boards may be taken afunder for eafe and conveniency of Carriage. For the binding of the two Boards and Ledges faff, when the Table is fet together, there is a Box Jointed-Frame, about \ of an Inch broad, and of the fame thickness as the Boards, which may be folded together in 6 Pieces. This Frame is so contrived, that it may be taken off and put on the Table at pleafure, and may go eafily on the Table, either side being up- wards. This Frame also is to faften a Sheet of Paper upon the Table, by forcing down the Frame, and fqueezing in all the Edges of the Paper •, so that it lies firm and even upon the Table, that thereby the Plot of a Field, or other Inclofure, may conveniently be drawn up- on it.

On both sides this Frame, near the inward Edge, are Scales of Inches fubdivided into 10 equal Parts, having their proper Figures fet to them. The Uses of these Scales of Inches, are for ready drawing of Parallel Lines upon the Paper ; and also for fhifting your Paper, when one Sheet will not hold the whole Work.

Upon one side of the said Box Frame, are projected the 360 Degrees of a Circle from a Brass Center-Hole in the Middle of the Table. Each of these Degrees are fubdivided into 30 Minutes ; to every 10th Degree is fet two Numbers, one expreffing the proper Number of Degrees, and the other the Complement of that Number of Degrees to 360. This is done to avoid the trouble of Subftraction in taking of Angles.

On the other Side of this Frame, are projected the 180 Degrees of a Semi-Circle from a Brass Center-FIole, in the Middle of the Table's length, and about a fourth Part of it's breadth. Each of these Degrees are fubdivided into 30 Minutes ; to every 10th Degree is fet likewise, as on the other side, two Numbers ; one expreffing the proper Number of Degrees, and the other the Complement of that Number of Degrees to 180, for the fame Reason, as before.

The manner of projecting the Degrees on the aforsaid Frame, is, by having a large Circle divided into Degrees, and every 30 Minutes : For then placing either of the Brass Center- Floles on the Table, in the Center of that Circle so divided, and laying a Ruler from that Center to the Degrees on the Limb of the Circle ; where the Edge of the Ruler cuts the Frame, make Marks for the Correfpondent Degrees on the Frame.

The Degrees thus infertecl on the Frame, are of excellent use in wet or ftormy Weather, when you cannot keep a Sheet of Paper upon the Table. Also these Degrees will make the Plain-Table a Theodoike, or a Semi-Circle, according as what side of the Frame is upper- most.

There is a Box, with a Needle and Card, covered with a Glass, fixed to one of the long Sides of the Table, by means of a Screw, that thereby it may be taken off. This Box and Needle is very useful for placing the Instrument in the fame Pofition upon every remove.

There belongs to this Instrument a Brass Socket and Spangle, fere wed with three Screws to the Bottom of the Table, into which must be put the Head of the three-legged Staff, which may be fcrewed faft, by means of a Screw in the Side of the Socket.

There is alio an Index belonging to the Table, which is a large Brass Ruler, at least 16 Inches long, and 2 Inches broad, and so thick as to make it strong and firm, having a Hoped P.dge, called the Fiducial Edge, and two Sights fcrewed perpendicularly on it, of the lame Height. They must be fet on the Ruler perfectly at the fame Distance from the Fiducial Edge. Upon this Index it is ulual to have many Scales of equal Parts, as also Diagonals, and Lints of Chord?,

SECTION

Of the GonflmSiion of the Circumferentor.

Fig. G. THIS Instrument confifts of a Brass Index and Circle, all of a Piece •, the Index is com-

monly made about 14 Inches long, an Inch and half broad, and of a convenient Thicknefs. The Diameter of the aforenamed Circle is about 7 Inches. On this Circle is made a Card, whose Meridian Line anfwers to the Middle of the Breadth of the Index : That Card is divided into 360 Degrees. There is a Brass Ring foldered on the Circumference of the Circle, on which fcrews another Ring with a flat Glass in it ; so that they make a kind of Box to contain the Needle fufpended upon the Pivot placed in the Center of the Circle.

There are also two Sights to fere w on, or Aide up and down the Index, like those before- named, belonging to the Index of the Plain-Table •, as likewise a Spangle and Socket fcrewed on to the back-side of the Circle, for putting the Plead of the Staff in.

SECTION II.

Of the Vfe of the Plain-Table and Circumferentor.

BUT first, it is neceffary to know how to fet the Parts of the Plain-Table together, to make it fit for ufe.

When you would make your Table fit for ufe, lay the two Boards together, and also the Ledges at the Ends in their due Places, according as they are marked. Then lay a Sheet of white Paper all over the Table, which must be ftretched over the Boards, by putting on the Box Frame, which binds both the Paper to the Boards, and the Boards to one another : Then fcrew the Socket on the back-side the Table, and also the Box and Needle in it's due Place, the Meridian Line of the Card lying parallel to the Meridian or Diameter of the Table ; which Diameter is a Right Line drawn upon the Table, from the Beginning of the Degrees thro' the Center, and so to the End of the Degrees. Then put the Socket upon the Head of the Staff, and there fcrew it : Also put the Sights upon the Index, and lay the Index on the Table. So is your Instrument prepared for ufe, as a Plain-Table, Theodolite, or Semi- Circle.

But Note, It is either a Theodolite, or Semi-Circle, according as the Theodolite or Semi-Circular Side of the Frame is upwards ; for when you use your Instrument as a Plain- Table, you may place your Center in any part of the Table, which you judge most proper for bringing on the Work you intend. But if you use your Instrument as a Theodolite, the Index must be turned about upon the Brass Center-Hole in the Middle of the Table ; and if for a Semi-Circle, upon the other Brass Center-Hole, by means of a Pin or Needle placed therein.

If you have a mind to use this Instrument, as a Circumferentor, you need only fcrew the Box and Needle to the Index, and both of them to the Head of the Staff, with a Brass Screw- Pin fitted for that purpofe : So that the Staff being fixed in any Place, the Index and Sights, may turn about at pleafure, without moving the Staff.

USE I. How to measure the Quantity of any Angle in the Field, by the Plain-Tablet considered as a Theodolite, Semi-Circle, and Circumferentor.

I. How to obferve an Angle in the Field by the Plain-Table.

Plate 14. Suppose E K, KG, to be two Hedges, or two Sides of a Field, including the Angle

Fig. i. E KG, and it is required to draw upon the Table an Angle equal thereto : Firit place your In-

ftrument as near the Angular Point K as conveniency will permit, turning it about, 'till the North End of the Needle hangs directly over the Meridian Line in the Card, and then fcrew the Table faft. Then upon your Table, with your ProtracTing-Pin (which is a fine Needle put into a Piece of Box or Ivory, neatly turned) or Compals-Point, affign any Point at pleafure upon the Table, and to that Point apply the Edge of the Index, turning the Index about upon that Point, 'till thro' the Sights thereof you fee a Mark fet up atE, or parallel to the Line E K : And then with your Protra£ting-Pin, Compass-Point, or Pencil, draw a Line by the Side of the Index to the affigned Point upon the Table. Then (the Table remaining immoveable) turn the Index about upon the forementioned Point, and direct the Sights to the Mark fet up at G, or parallel thereto, that is, so far distant from G, as your Instrument is placed from K ; and then by the Side of the Index draw another Line to the affigned Point. Thus will there be drawn upon the Table two Lines reprefenting the Hedges E K, and K G ; and which include an Angle equal to the Angle E K G. And tho' you know not the Quantity of this Angle, yet you may find it, if required : For in working by this Instrument, it is fufficient only to give the Proportions of Angles, and not their Quantities in Degrees, as in working by the Theodolite, Serni-Circle, or Circumferentor. Also in working by the Plain-Table, there needs no Protraction at all, for you will have upon your Table the true

Figure of any Angle or Angles that you obferve in the Field, in their true Pofition;, without
any further trouble.

II. How to find the Quantity of an Angle in the Field, by the Plain-Table, conftdered as a

Theodolite, or Semi-Circle.

Let it first be required to find the Quantity of the Angle EKG by the Plain-Table, as a Fig. i. Theodolite : Place your Instrument at K, with the Theodolite side of the Frame upwards, laying the Index upon the Diameter thereof-, then turn the whole Instrument about (the In- dex itill rcfting upon the Diameter) 'till thro' the Sights you efpy the Mark at E : Then fcrew- jne the Instrument faft there, turn the Index about upon the Theodolite Center-Hole in the Middle of the Table, 'till thro' the Sights you efpy the Mark at G. Then note what Degrees on the Frame of the Table are cut by the Index, and those will be the Quantity of the Angle EKG fought.

You must proceed in the fame manner for finding the Quantity of an Angle by the Plain- Table as a Semi-Circle ; only put the Semi-Circle side of the Frame upwards, and move the Index upon the other Center-Hole.

III. How to obferve the Quantity of an Angle by the Circumferentor.

If it be required to find the Quantity of the former Angle EKG by the Circumferentor, Fig. i. First, place your Instrument (as before) at K, with the Flower-de-luce in the Card towards you. Then direct your Sights to E, and obferve what Degrees are cut by the South-End of the Needle, which let be 296 ; then turning the Instrument about (the Flower-de-luce always towards you), direct the Sights to G, noting then also, what Degrees are cut by the South- End of the Needle, which suppose 182. This done (always) fubftract the leffer from the greater, as in this Example 182 from 296, and the Remainder is 114 Degrees ; which is the true Quantity of the Angle E K G.

Again; The Instrument (landing at K, and the Sights being directed toE, as before, fup- pofe the South-End of the Needle had cut 79 Degrees ; and then directing the Sights to G 5 the fame End of the Needle had cut 325 Degrees. Now, if from 325 you fubftract 79, the Remainder is 246. But because this Remainder 246 is greater than 180, you must therefore fubftract 246 from 360, and there will remain 114, the true Quantity of the Angle fought.

This adding and fubftracting for finding of Angles may feem tedious to fome. But here note, That for quick difpatch the Circumferentor is as good an Instrument as any, for in go- ing round a Field, or in furveying a whole Manor, you are not to take notice of the Quan- tity of any Angle ; but only to obferve what Degrees the Needle cuts : as hereafter will be man ife fi- ll S E II. Hew by the Plain-Table, to take the Plot of a Field at one Station within the fame, from whence all the Angles of the fame Field may be feen.

Having entered upon the Field to furvey, your first work must be to fet up some vifible Fig. 2. Mark at each Angle thereof; which being done, make choice of some convenient Place about the Middle of the Field, from whence all the Marks may be feen, and there place your Table covered with a Sheet of Paper, with the Needle hanging directly over the Meridian Line of the Card (which you must always have regard to, efpecially when you are to furvey many Fields together). Then make a Mark about the Middle of the Paper, to reprefent that part of the Field where the 7'able ftands ; and laying the Index upon this Point, direct your Sights to the several Angles where you before placed Marks, and draw Lines by the Side of the Index upon the Paper. Then measure the Distance of every of these Marks from your Table, and by your Scale fet the fame Distances upon the Lines drawn upon the Table, mak- ing small Marks with your Protracting-Pin, or Compass-Point, at the End of every of them. Then Lines being drawn from the one to the other of these Points, will give you the exact Plot of the Field ; all the Lines and Angles upon the Table being proportional to those of the Field.

Example ; Suppose the Plot of the Field A B C D E F was to be taken. Having placed Marks in the several Angles thereof, make choice of some proper Place about the Middle of the Field, as at L, from whence you may behold all the Marks before placed in the several Angles ; and there place your Table. Then turn your Instrument about, 'till the Needle hangs over the Meridian Line of the Card, denoted by the Line N S.

Your Table being thus placed with a Sheet of Paper thereon, make a Mark about the Middle of your Table, which shall reprefent the Place where your Table ftands. Then, ap- plying your Index to this Point, direct the Sights to the first Mark at A, and the Index rett- ing there, draw a Lire by the Side thereof to the Point L. Then with your Chain measure the Distance from I.,, the Piace where your Table ftands, to A, the first Mark, which fup- pofe 8 Chains, 10 Links. Then take 8 Chains 10 Links from any Scale, and let that Di- ftance upon the Line from L to A

Then directing the Sights to B, draw a Line by the Side of the Index, as before, and iriCifure the Distance from your Table at L, to the Mark at B, which suppose 8 Chains 7/5 Links. This distance taken from your Scale, and applied to your Table from L to B, will give the Point B, reprefenting the second Mark.

Then direct the Sights to the third Mark C, and draw a Line by the Side of the Index, measuring the Distance from L to C, which suppose 10 Chains 65 Links. This Distance be- ing taken from your Scale, and applied to your Table from L to C, will give you the Point C, reprefenting the third Mark.

In this manner you mull: deal with the Rest of the Marks at D, E, and F, and more, if the Field had confifted of more Sides and Angles.

Laftly ; When you have made Obfervations of all the Marks round the Field, and found the Points ABCDE and F upon your Table, you must draw Lines from one Point to another, 'till you conclude where you first begun. As, draw a Line from A to B, from B to C, from C to D, from D to E, from E to F, and from F to A, where you begun •, then will A B C D E F, be the exact Figure of your Field, and the Line N S the Me- ridian.

Note, Our Chains are commonly 4 Poles in Length, and are divided into one hundred equal Parts, called Links, at every tenth of which are Brass Difti notions numbering them.

USE III. To take the Plot of a Wood, Park, or other large Champ ain Plain t by the Plain-Table, in measuring round about the fame.

Suppose ABCDEFGtobea large Wood, whose Plot you defire to take upon the Plain-Table, pie,, , I. Having put a Sheet of Paper upon the Table, place your Instrument at the Angle A, and direct your Sights to the next Angle at B, and by the Side thereof draw a Line upon your Table, as the Line A B. Then measure by the Hedge -Side from the Angle A to the Angle B, which suppose 12 Chains 5 Links. Then trom your Scale take 12 Chains 5 Links, and lay off upon your Table from A to B. Then turn the Index about, and direct the Sights to G, and draw the Line A G upon the Table. But at prefent you need not measure the Distance.

II. Remove your Instrument from A, and fet up a Mark where it last flood, and place your Instrument at the second Angle B. Then laying the Index upon the Line A B, turn the whole Instrument about, 'till thro* the Sights you fee the Mark fet up at A, and there icrew the Instrument. Then laying the Index upon the Point B, direct your Sights to the Angle C, and draw the Line B C upon your Table. Then measuring the Distance B C 4 Chains 45 Links, take that Distance from your Scale, and fet it upon your Table from B toC.

III. Remove your Instrument from B, and fet up a Mark in the room of it, and place your Instrument at C, laying the Index upon the Line C B ; and turn the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you efpy the Mark fet up at B, and there faften the Instrument. Then laying the Index on the Point C, direct the Sights to D, and draw upon the Table the Line C D. Then measure from C to D 8 Chains S5 Links, and fet that Distance upon your Table from C to D.

IV. Remove the Instrument to D (placing a Mark at C, where it last flood), and lay the Index upon the Line DC, turning the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you fee the Mark at C, and there faften the Instrument. Then lay the Index on the Point D, and direct the Sights to E, and draw the Line D E. Then with your Chain measure the Distance DE 13 Chains 4 Links, which lay off on the Table from D to E.

V. Remove your Instrument to E (placing a Mark at D, where it last flood), and laying the Index upon the Line D E, turn the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you fee the Mark at D, and there faften the Instrument. Then lay the Index on the Point E, and direct the Sights to F, and draw the Line E F. Then measure the Distance E F 7 Chains 70 Links, which take from your Scale, and lay off from E to F.

VI. Remove your Instrument to F, placing a Mark at E (where it last flood), and lay the Index upon the Line E F, turning the Instrument about, 'till you fee the Mark fet up at E, and there faften the Instrument. Then laying the Index on the Point F, direct the Sights to G, and draw the Line F G upon the Table, which Line F G will cut the Line A G in the Point G. Then measure the Distance F G 5 Chains 6y Links, and lay it off from F to G.

VII. Remove your Instrument to G (fetting a Mark where it last flood), and lay the Index upon the Line F G, turning the whole Instrument about, 'till thro' the Sights you fee the Mark at F, and there faften the Instrument. Then laying the Index upon the Point G, di- rect the Sights to A (your first Mark), and draw the Line G A, which, if you have truly wrought, will pass directly thro' the Point A, where you first began.

In this manner may you take the Plot of any Champain Plain, be it never so large. And here note, That very often Hedges are of such a Thicknefs, that you cannot come near the Sides or Angles of the Field, either to place your Instrument, or measure the Lines. There- fore in such Cafes you must place your Instrument, and measure your Lines parallel to the Side thereof ; and then your Work will be the fame as if you measured the Hedge itfelf.

NO T E also, That in thus going about a Field, you may much help yourfelf by the Needle. For looking what Degree of the Card the Needle cuts at one Station, if you remove your Inflru merit to the next Station, and with your Sights look to the Mark where the Instrument last flood, you will find the Needle to cut the fame Degree again, which will give you no small Satisfaction in the profecution of your Work. And tho' there be a hundred or more Sides, the Needle will itill cut the fame Degree at all of them, except you have committed some former Error : therefore at every Station have an Eye to the Needle.

Of Shifting of Paper,

In taking the Plot of a Field by the Plain-Table, and going about the fame, as before di- Fig. 4. reded, it may so fall out, if the Field be very large, and when you are to take many Inclo- fures together, that the Sheet of Paper upon the Table will not hold all the Work. But you must be forced to take off that Sheet, and put another clean Sheet in the room thereof: and, in Plotting of a Manor or Lordfhip, many Sheets may be thus changed, which we call Shifting of Paper. The Manner ot performing thereof is as follows.

Suppose in going about to take the Plot A B C D E F G, as before directed,, that you hav- ing made choice of the Angle at A for the Place of the Beginning, and vproceeded from thence to B, and ftom B to C, and from C to D, when you come to the Angle at D, and are to draw D E, you want room to draw the fame upon the Table. Do thus :

First, thro' the Point D draw the Line D O, which is almost so much of the Line D E, as the Table will contain. Then near the Edge of the Table H M, draw a Line parallel to H M, by means of the Inches and Subdivifions on the opposite Sides of the Frame, as P Q^, and another Line at Right Angles to that thro' the Point O, as O N. This being done, mark this Sheet of Paper with the Figure (1) about the Middle thereof, for the first Sheet. Then taking this Sheet off your Table, put another clean Sheet thereon, and draw upon it Fl - _ a Line parallel to the contrary Edge of the Table, as the Line R S. Then taking your first Sheet of Paper, lay it upon the Table fo, that the Line P Qjnay exactly lie upon the Line R S, to the b -ft advantage, as at the Point O {Fig. 5.). Then with the Point of your CompafTes draw so much of the Line O D upon the clean Sheet of Paper as the Table will hold. Hav- ing thus done, proceed with your Work upon the new Sheet, beginning at the Point O ; and so going forward with your Work, as in all Refpects has before been directed •, as from O to E, from E to F, from F to G, and from G to A (by this direction), fhifting your Paper as often as you have occafion.

USE IV. How to take the Plot of any Wood., Park, &c. by going about the fame, and making Obfervations at every Angle thereof by the Circumferentor.

Suppose ABCDEFGHK is a large Field, or other Inclofure, to be Plotted by the Fig. 6.

Circumferentor.

1. Placing your Instrument at A (the Flower-de-luce being towards you), direct the Sights to B, the South-End of the Needle cutting 191 Degrees, and the Ditch, Wall, or Hedge, containing 10 Chains 75 Links. The Degrees cut, and the Line measured, must be noc«d down in your Field-Book.

2. Place your Instrument at B, and direct the Sights to C, the South-End of the Needle cutting 279 Degrees, and the Line B C containing 6 Chains 83 Links ; which note down in your Field-Book.

3. Place the Instrument at C, and direct the Sights to D, the Needle cutting 216 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line C D containing 7 Chains 82 Links.

4. Place the Instrument at D, and direct the Sights to E, the Needle cutting 327 Degrees, and the Line D E containing 9 Chains 96 Links.

5. Place the Instrument at E, and direct the Sights to F, the Needle cutting 12 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line F E 9 Chains 71 Links.

6. Place the Instrument at F, and direct the Sights to G, the Needle cutting 342 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line F G being 7 Chains 54 Links.

7. Place the Instrument at G, and direct the Sights to H, the Needle cutting 98 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line G FI containing 7 Chains 52 Links.

8. Place the Instrument at H, and direct the Sights to K, the Needle cutting 71 Deg. and the Line H K containing 7 Chains 78 Links.

9. Place the Instrument at K, and direct the Sights to A (where you began), the Needle cutting 161 Deg. 30 Min. and the Line K A containing 8 Chains 22 Links.

Having gone round the Field in this manner, and collected the Degrees cut, and the Lints measured, in the Field-Book, you will find them to ftand as follows, by which you may pro- tract and draw your Field, as prelently I shall (hew.

In o-oing about a Field in this manner, you may perceive a wonderful quick Difpatch j for you are only to take notice of the Degrees cut once at every Angle, and not to use any Back-Sights, that is, to look thro' the Sights to the Station you last went from. But to ufe Back-Sights with the Circumferentor, is beft to confirm your Work : For when you (land at any Angle of a Field, and direct your Sights to the next, and obferve what Degrees the South-End of the Needle cuts ; if you remove your Instrument from this Angle to the next, and look to the Mark or Angle where it last flood, the Needle will there also cut the fame Degrees as before.

So the Instrument being placed at A, if you direct the Sights to B, you will find the Needle to cut 19-1 Degrees •, then removing your Instrument to B, if you direct the Sights to A, the Needle will then also cut 191 Degrees.

Notwithstanding the quick Difpatch this Instrument makes, one half of the Work will al- most be faved ; if, inftead of placing the Instrument at every Angle, you place it but at every other Angle. An Inftance of which take in the aforegoing Example.

1. Placing the Instrument at A, and directing the Sights to B, you find the Needle'to cut 191 Degrees. Then,

2. Placing the Instrument at B, directing the Sights to C, you find the Needle to cut 279 Degrees. And,

3. Placing the Instrument at C, and directing the Sights to D, you find the Needle to cut 2 1 6 Degrees.

Now, having placed your Instrument at A, and noted down the Degrees cut by the Needle, which was 191, you need not go to the Angle B at all, but go next to the Angle C, and there place your Instrument ; and directing your Sights backwards to B, you wifl find the Needle to cut 279 Degrees, which are the fame as were before cut when the Inftru- ment was placed at B : so that the Labour of placing the Instrument at B is wholly faved. Then (the Instrument ftill (landing at C) direct the Sights to D, and the Needle will cut 216 Degrees, as before, which note in your Field-Book. This done, remove your Inftru- ment to £, and obferve according to the last Directions, and you will find the Work to be the fame as before. Then remove the Instrument from E to G, from G to K, and so to eyery second Angle. I now proceed, to fhew the Manner of Protracting the former Obfervations.

According to the largenefs of your Plot provide a Sheet of Paper, as L MN O, upon which draw the Line L M, and parallel thereto draw divers other Lines quite thro' the whole Paper, as the pricked Lines, in the Figure, drawn between L M and N O. Thefe Parallels thus drawn, reprefent Meridians. Upon one or other of these Lines, or parallel to one of them, must the Diameter of your Protractor be always laid.

r. Your Paper being thus prepared, afilgn any Point upon any of the Meridians, as A, upon which place the Center of the Protractor, laying the Diameter thereof upon the Me- ridian Line drawn upon the Paper. Then look in your Field-Book what Degrees the Needle cuts at A, which was 191 Degrees. Now, because the Degrees were above 180, you must therefore lay the Semi-Circle of the Protractor downwards, and keeping it there, make a Mark with the Protracting-Pin against 191 Degrees \ thro' which Point, from A, draw the Line A B, containing 10 Chains 75 Links.

2. Lay the Center of the Protractor on the Point B, with the Diameter in the fame Por- tion as before directed (which always obferve). And because the Degrees cut at B were more than 180, viz. 279, therefore the Semi-Circle of the Protractor must lie dov/nwards •, and fo holding it, make a Mark against the 279 Degrees, and thro' it draw the Line B C, contain- ing 6 Chains 83 Links.

3. Place the Center of the Protractor on the Point C. Then the Degrees cut by the Needle at the Obfervation in C, being above 180, namely, 216 Degrees 30 Minutes, the Semi-Circle of the Protractor must lie downwards. Then making a Mark against 216 Deg. 30 Min. thro' it draw the Line C D, containing 7 Chains 82 Links.

4. Lay the Center of the Protractor upon the Point'D-, the Degrees cut by the Needle at that Angle being 325 : which being above 180, lay the Semi-Circle downward ; and against 3,25 Degrees make a Mark, thro' which Point, and the Angle D, draw the Line D E, con- taining 6 Chains 96 Links,

5. Remove your Protractor to E. And bccaufe the Degrees cut by the Needle at this Angle were less than ioo, namely, 12 Degrees 30 Min. therefore lay the Semi-Circle of the Protractor upwards, and make a Mark, against 12 Degrees 30 Minutes, thro' which draw the Line E F, containing 9 Chains 71 Links.

6. Lay the Center of the Protractor upon the Point F ; and becaiife the Degrees to be pro- tracted are above iSo, viz. 342 Degrees 30 Minutes, lay the Semi-Circle of the Protractor downwards, and make a Mark against: 342 Degrees 30 Minutes, drawing the Line F G, containing 7 Chains 54 Links.

And in this Manner must you -protract all the other Angles, G, H, and K, and more, if the Field had confided of more Angles.

CHAP. III.

Of the CohfiruEiton arid Use of the Surveying- Wheel.

THIS Instrument confifts of a wooden Wheel, fhod with Iron, to prevent it's wear- Fig ?, ing, exactly two Feet seven Inches and a half in Diameter, that so it's Circumlerence may be eight Feet three Inches, or half a Pole.

At the End of the Axle-Tree of this Wheel, on the left Side thereof, is, at Right Angles to the Axle-Tree, a little Star, about three fourths of an Inch Diameter, having eight Teeth. Now the Use of this Star is such, that when the Wheel moves round, the said Star's Teeth, by falling at Right Angles into the Teeth of another Star of eight Teeth, fixed at one End of an Iron Rod (QJ caufes the Iron Rod to move once round in the fame Time the Wheel hath moved once round. Therefore every time you have drove the Wheel half a Pole, the Iron Rod goes once round.

This Iron Rod, lying along a Groove in the Side of the Body of the Instrument, hath on the other End a i qua re Hole, in which goes the square End b of the little Cylinder P. This Cylinder is faftened underneath the upper Plate H, of a Movement, covered with a Glass, placed in the Body of the Instrument at B, yet fo, that it may be move- Fi'g. 0. able about it's Axis, having the End a cut into a fingle threaded perpetual Screw, which falling into the Teeth of the Wheel A, being thirty-two in Number, when you drive the Instrument forwards, caufes the Wheel A to go once round at the End of each 16th Pole. The Pinion B hath fix Teeth, which falling into the Teeth of the Wheel C, whose Number is fixty, caufes that to move once round at the End of each 1 60th Pole, or half Mile. This Wheel carries round a Hand, once in 160 Poles, over the Divisions of an annular Plate, fixed upon the Plate H, whose outmost Limb is divided into 160 equal Parts, each tenth of which is numbered, and fhews how many Poles the Instrument is drove.

Again •, The Pinion D, which is fixed to the fame Arbre as the Wheel C is, hath twenty Teeth, which by their falling into the Teeth of the Wheel E, which hath forty Teeth, caufes the said Wheel E to go round once in 320 Poles, or one Mile-, and the Pinion F, of twelve Teeth, falling into the Teeth of the Wheel G, whose Number is 72, caufes the 1 Wheel G to go once round in 12 Miles. This Wheel G carries another leifer Hand once round in 12 Miles, over the Divisions of the innermost Limb of the aforsaid annular Plate, which is divided into twelve equal Parts for Miles, and each Mile fubdivided into Halves and Quarters (that is, into eight equal P«arts, for Furlongs), with Roman Characters num- bering the Miles.

The Use of this Instrument is such, that by driving the Wheel before you, the Number of Miles, Poles, or both, you have gone, is eafily fhewn by the two Elands. And so this Instrument, together with a Theodolite or Circumferentor, for taking of Bearings, is of ex- cellent Use in Plotting of Roads, Rivers, &c. For having placed your Wheel and Circum- ferentor at the Beginning of the Road you defign to plot, which call your first Station, caufe fome Perfon to go as far along the Road as you find it ftraight •, and then take a Bearing to him, which fet down. This being done, drive the Wheel before you to the Place where the Man (lands, which call the second Station, and note, by the Hands of the Dial-Plate, the Distance from the first Station to the second, which fet down. Again, Having placed your Circumferentor at the second Station, caufe the Man to go along the Road 'till he comes to another Bend therein. And from the second Station take a Bearing to the Man at the third, which fet down. Then drive the Wheel from the second Station to the third, and note the Distance, which fet down. And in this Manner proceed 'till you come to your Journey's End. Then in Plotting the Road, you must obferve the fame Directions, as are given in Plotting the Example of Use IV. of the la't Chapter.
