
BOOK III.

Of the Conftru&ion and Use of several different Sorts of Compares, and other Curious Instruments.

CHAP. I.

Of the Conftruttion and Uses of several Sorts &lt;?/* CompafTes.

A V I N G already treated of Common CompafTes, ufually put into Cafes" of Inftru merits, we proceed now to mention some others, fometimes like- wife placed in Cafes of different Bigneffes.

The Conjtruftion of Hair-Compasses. Thefe Compares are so called, because of a Contrivance in the Body of pi atP n them, by means of which an Extent may be taken to a hair's Breadth * 1 We have before hinted, that the Goodnefs of CompafTes confifts chiefly 8 ' A * in having the Motion of their Head fufficiently eafy, and that they open and fliut very equally • anc I thai : they may do fo, the Joints ought to be well Hit, and very equal in Thicknefs '

&lt; 1 he Manner of conftrudhng the Joints, is thus : We first, with a Steel-Saw, flit th- Head in two Places, so that there remains a Middle-Piece, the Thicknefs of a Card ; then we flit whVh r g ^ V he Compasses, in * e Midd1 ^ of the Joint, to receive the Middle-Piece

which was referved for that purpofe ; afterwards the Joints mull be filed and flraightned fo

the M ZlTJf rhe H " J 0, - ned n- CVC 7 Where ' • ™ S bd °S done &gt; we dri11 - -und HofeTorow Lo thronih r? p" ' »" Bignefs proportional to that of the CompafTes, for the Rivet to go through ■ the Rivet ought to be very round, and exaclly fill the aforsaid Hole. When we have nvetted ,t the Head of the CompafTes must be warmed, and a little yellow wS poured between the Joints, for leaning the Fridion of the Legs' in opening andZttmg

^^^S. UPOnthC "^ tW ° tUnied CheCkS ' Winter-Rive^ The : little Screw at the Bottom of the Body of these Hair-Compasses, is to move the Steel

by° : R^TtTha f ?i Wa / dS ' 3t P , ,ea c fUre: 4 P ° int is faftened ^Top ^ofTcompafT: to he other Lei ? n ? ^ S ^ W * ^"S 8 ' The other Sted Po ^ must be foldered for foW^^™^!^ ? 11 ° f Com P affes ar * that ™ fi«d. Now to fit these Points he Cornp affes Z ill J d f °' ? t0 fi - int0 tW0 Slits made in the Bottom of the Body of

No7 ? SMer t rnmm f 7 "7 be . w u c » J oincd , and ^ Solder strongly hold them. ' Silver iSirT? 7 "'I Wlth u Sllver and Thi ^ of Copper? that is, twice more pr which SK fi ft f "?? '* ^ th ° ne Dram of Si,ver ' we ™ ix half a Dram of Cop- EtIteTl££*rf IS dm , a Crucible v-d afterwards, when cold, hammered to I

there is use for ir q m ^ an i m } lnt0 fma11 Pieces that ic ™7 the fooner run, when there is use for it. Solder is hkewife often made with Copper and Zink mixed together, w£

In melting \ of Copper, with ^ of Zink : In foldering, we use Borax finely bruifed, which makes the Solder better run and penetrate t'he Joint?, or any thing else to be foldered.

Of the German Compajfes.

Fig. B. The Legs of these CompafTes are fomething bent, so that, when fhut, the Points only

touch each other. One Point of these CompafTes may be taken off, and others put on y by means of a small square Hole made in the Bottom of the Body, for the Points to go in, and a Screw to keep them fafl when in : but these Points ought very well to fit the aforsaid square Hole, that they may not fhake.

The Points generally put on, are,

Firjiy A Drawing-Pen Point, by means of which, Lines fine or coarfe may be drawn with Ink, by help of a little Screw near the Point of the Drawing-Pen. This Drawing- Pen Point, as well as the other Points to be put on, has a small Joint, almost like the Head of a Pair of CompafTes, by means of which it may be kept perpendicular to the Paper, according as the CompafTes are more or less opened. This Point is reprefented by Fig. 3.

Secondly^ A Pencil-carrying Point, reprefented by Fig. 2, for drawing Lines with a Pencil.

And Laftly y a Dotting- Wheel Point, {Fig. 1.) whose Use is to make dotted Lines. What wc call a Dotting-Wheel, is a little Wheel of Brass, or ether Mttal, about 3 Lines in Diame- ter, round which is made little pointed Teeth. This W T heel is faflened between two little Pieces of Brass by a small Pin, so that it may freely turn round, almost like a Spur ; but the said Teeth must not be too far distant from each other, because then the Dots the Wheel makes, will also be too far distant from each other.

The Conftruction of these CompafTes as to their Joints, &c. being the fame as those before fpoken of, I shall only add, that since the Beauty of CompafTes confifso very much in their being well polifhed ; for this effect, we first rub the CompafTes with Slate-Stone dipped ia Water ; then we rub every part of the CompafTes with a fiat Stick of foft Wood, and a Mix- ture of Emery tempered with Oil, or fine Tripoly. And lastly, we wipe the Compafles clean with a Cloth or Piece of Shamoy.

Of the Spring-Compasses.

Fig. C. Thefe CompafTes are all made of tempered Steel, which are so hard every where, that s

File cannot touch them ; and the Head of these CompafTes is rounded, that by it's Spring it opens and fhuts itfelf: the Circular Screw fix'd to one of the Legs, ferves to open or fhut it, by means of a Nut- Thefe CompafTes are very fit to- take small Lengths, and make small Divisions ; yet they ought to be but fhort, and so tempered, that they may have a good Spring, and not break.

Of the Clock-makers Compajfes.

fig. D. Thefe CompafTes, which are strong and solid, ferve to cut Part-board, Brass, and other

the like things ; the Quadrant crofting it, ferves flrongly to fix it to a proposed Opening, by help of a Screw prefling against it. The Nut at the End of the said Quadrant, is to open or fhut the CompafTes at pleafure, in turning the said Nut, which ought to be so riveted to the Leg of the CompafTes, that it may make the other Leg move forwards or backwards. The Four Points ought to be made of well tempered Steel. That of Fig-. 1. is filed flopewife, like a Graving- Tool, to cut Brass •, that of Fig. 2. is like a pointed Button : and the two other Points are in figure of the fixed Points of common CompafTes; but they must be very strong. in proportion to the CompafTes.

There are different ways of tempering the Points of CompafTes, or other Pieces of Steel : For Example ; the Points of small CompafTes are tempered by means of a Lamp, and a small Brass Pipe: for blowing in the Pipe, caufes a strong lively Flame, in which putting the Points, or other Things, to be hardened, and they will become almost inftantly red hot, and when they are cold, they will be very hard. But the Points of great CompafTes, and other Steel Tools, are tempered with a Charcoal Fire, by blowing thro' the aforsaid Pipe, and heating them to a Cherry Colour, and afterwards putting them into Water, and then they will be rendered very hard.

Of the Three-legged Compajfes.

Jig. E. The Use of these CompafTes is to take three Points at once, and so to form a Triangle, or

to lay down three Pofitions of a Map to be copied at once, fcf c.

The ConftrucYion of these CompafTes doth not much differ from the Conftruction of the others, excepting only that the third Leg has a Motion every way, by means of a turned Ri- vet, riveted by one End to the two other Legs •, and at the other End there must be a turned Cheek, and a round Plate ferving for a Joint to the third Leg: the little Figure 1 fhows how the Rivet is made.

Of the Sea-Chart Compajfes.

Fig. F. The Legs of these CompafTes are crooked, and widened towards the Mead, so that by

preffing the two Legs with your Hand, you may open them. Their Construction fufficiently appears from the Figure, and their Use will be mentioned in the Instruments for Navigation.

Of thefimple Proportional Compajfes.

Thefe Compafles are used in dividing of Lines into 2, 3, 4&gt; or 5 e Q ual Parts, as also to re- Fig G. A ice small Figures to greater ones, and contrariwife, &V. You must: take care in making these Compafles, that the Head be drilled in a right Line with the Legs, and that the Points are not one forwarder than another. Now if you have a mind to make one of these Pair of Compafles to take the [ of a Line, the Distance from the Center of the Joint to the Ends of either of the longeft Legs, must be twice the Length of either of the fhorteft Legs ; and fd in proportion for others. Note, The Compafles of Figure G, are for dividing ot Lines into equal Parts j whence the Distance from the Center marked 5, to the Points 2; 2, is three times the Distance from the said Center* to the Points 3 or 4 : So that if the third Part of the L ine 2, 2, be required, it's whole Length must first be taken between the longeft Legs of the Compafles, which remaining thus opened, the Distance between the Points of the fhorteft Legs, will be \ of the given Line.

Of the Mcveabk-headed Proportional Compajfes. The Use of these proportional Compafles, is to divide a given Line into any Number of Fig. H. equal Parts, as alio to divide the Circumference of a Circle, so that a regular Polygon may be infcribed therein.

Thefe Compafles confift of two equal Legs, each of which is fufnifhed with tWo Steel Points and are hollowed in, for a Curfor to flip up and down •, in the middle of which Curfor, there i's a Screw ferving to join the Legs, and to faften them in divers Places by means of a Nut : but the Legs must be hollowed in exactly in the Middle of their Breadth, that so the Center of the Curfor may be in a right Line with the Points of the Legs, and the Curfor flidei very exactly along the Legs : as also the Head-Screw must exactly fill the Hole in the Curfor, so that nothing may fhake when the Legs are fattened* with the Nut.

Figure 1, reprefents the Screw •, Figure 2, the Nut j Figure 3, half the Curfor, which must be iomed by a like half. You may fee by that little Figure, that there is a Piece in the Middle kit exactly to fit the Hollow of the Leg of the Compafles : the fhadowed Spaces of the said Figure, are to contain the two Sides of the Leg j underftand the fame of the other half of the Curfor.

Figure 1, is one of the Legs feparate, upon which are theDiviftons for equal Parts: for upon one Side of one of the Legs, are the Divisions for dividing of Lines into equal Parts j and upon one Side of the other Leg, are denoted the Numbers fhewing how to inferibe any regular Polygon in a proposed Circle.

Now to make the Divisions for dividing Lines into equal Parts, take a well divided Scale, or a Sector, which is better, because it is almost a univerfal Scale : then take the exact Length of one of the Legs of your proportional Compafles between your Compafles, and having opened the Sector, so that the Distance between 120 and 120 of the Line of Lines be equal to that Ertent, take the Distance from 40 to 40, which lay off upOn the Leg of your Compafles, and at the End thereof, fet the Number 2, which will ferve to divide any given Line into two equal Parts: The Sector ftill continuing opened to the fame Angle, take the Distance from 30 to 30, on the Line of equal Parts, and lay off upon the aforsaid Leg of the Compafles, where fct down the Number 3, and that will give the Division for taking 4 of any given Line. Again •, take 24 equal Parts, as before, from the Line of Lines, lay them off upon the Leg, and that will give the Division for dividing a Line into 4 equal Parts.

Moreover, take 20 equal Parts, and that will give you the Division upon the Leg of the Compafles, ferving to divide a Line into 5 equal Parts: the fame Opening of the Sector will ftiil ferve to divide a Line into 7, 9, and 11 equal Parts. But to avoid Fractions, the afore- said Opening must be changed, to make the Division of 6, 8, 10, and 12, upon the Leg : but before the said Opening of the Sector be altered, take the Distance from 15 to 15, which will give the Divisions for dividing a Line into 7 equal Parts.

Again i Take 12, and that will give the Division for dividing a Line into 9 equal Parts; and lastly, the Distance from 10 to 10, will give the Division for dividing any Line into 11 equal Parts.

But to make the Division for dividing a Line into 6 equal Parts, take between your Com- pafles the Length of one of the Legs of the proportional Compafles, and open the Sector fo, that the Distance between 140 and 140, on each Line of equal Parts, be equal to the afore- said Length. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 20 to 20, on each Line ot equal Parts, and lay it off upon the Leg of the Compafles, and that will give the Di- vifion for dividing a Line into 6 equal Parts.

Again ; having taken the Length of the Leg of your Compafles, open the Sector, so that the Distance from 180 to 180, of each Line of equal Parts be equal thereto. Then take the Extent from 20 to 20, and that laid off upon the Leg of the Compafles, will give the Division for dividing a Line into 8 equal Parts.

Moreover, open the Sector fo, that the Distance from 1 10 to no, be equal to the Length of the Leg ot your Compafles. The Sector remaining thus opened, the Distance from 10 to 10, wili give the Division for dividing a Line into ten equal Parts-

Laftly, the Sector being opened, so that the Length of the Leg of your Compafles be equal to the Distance from 130 to 130 - r and then the Distance from 10 to 10 will give the Division for dividing a Line into twelve equal Parts.

The Use of this Line is eafy : for suppose a right Line is to be divided into three equal Parts ; firfb pufh the Curfor, so that the Middle of the Screw may be juft upon the Figure 3 ; and having firmly fixed it upon that Point, take the Length of the proposed Line between the two lon^eft Parts of the Legs j then the Distance between the two (horteft Parts of the Legs will be 7 of the given Line. Proceed thus for dividing a given Line into other equal Parts.

Now to make the Divisions for regular Polygons, divide the Leg of your Compafles into two equal Parts ; and having opened the Sector, let the Distance from 6 to 6, on the two Lines of Polygons, be equal to one of those Parts. The Sector remaining thus opened, take the Distance from 3 to 3 tor a Trigion, and lay it off from the End of the Leg of your pro- portional Compafles, where mark 3. Again,, take the Distance from 4 to 4 for a Square, up- on the Line of Polygons, and that will give the Division for a Square. Moreover, take the Distance from 5 to s&gt; on tne Lines of Polygons, and lay off upon the Leg of your Com- pafles, which will give the Division for a Pentagon ; proceed thus for the Heptagon, and the other Polygons, to the Dodecagon. It is needlefs to make the Division for a Hexagon, be- eaufe the Semidiameter of any Circle will divide it's Circumference into fix equal Parts.

The Use of this Line for the Infcription of Polygons is very eafy : for if, for Example, a Pentagon is to be infcribed in a given Circle, pufh the Curfor fo, that the Middle of the Screw may be against the Number 5 for a Pentagon ; then with the fhorteft Parts of the Legs, take the Semidiameter of the Circle ; and the Legs remaining thus opened, the Distance between the Points of the longed Parts of the Legs, will be the Side of a Pentagon infcribed in the given Circle.

Again, suppose a Heptagon is to be infcribed in a Circle j fix the Screw against the Num- ber 7 ; then take the Semidiameter of the Circle between the longeft Parts of the Legs of your Compafles, and the Distance between the fhorteft Parts of the Legs will be the Side of a. Heptagon infcribed in the said Circle.

Of the Beam-Compass.

Pig. K. This Compass confifts of a very even square Branch of Brass or Steel, from 1 to 3 or 4

Feet in Length. There are two square Brass Boxes or Curfors exactly fitted to the said Branch, upon each of which may be fcrewed on Steel, Pencil, or Drawing- Pen Points, ac- cording as you have use for them. One of the Curfors is made to Aide along the Branch, and may be made fafl to it by means of a Screw at the Top thereof, which prefles against: a little Spring ; the other Curfor is fixed very near one End of the Branch, where there 15 a Nut so faftened to it, that by turning it about the Screw, at the End of the Branch, the said Curfor may be moved backwarde or forwards at pleafure.

Thefe Compafles ferve to take great Lengths, as also exactly to draw the Circumferences ©f great Circles, and exactly divide them.

Of the ElliptichCompasses.

Fig. L. This Instrument, whose Use is to draw Ellipfes of any kinds, is made of a crofs Branch of

Brass, very ftrait and equal, about a Foot long, on which are fitted three Boxes, or Curfors, to Aide upon it. To one of the Curfors there may be fcrewed on a Steel-Point, or else one to draw with Ink, and fometirnes a Porte-Craion. At the Bottom of the two other Boxes are joined two Aiding Dove-Tails (as the little Figure 1 fhews), these Aiding Dove-Tails are adjufted in two Dove-Tail Grooves, made in the Branches of the Crofs. The aforsaid two Aiding Dove-Tails, which are affixed to the Bottoms of the Boxes by two round Rivets, and so have a Motion every way, by turning about the long Branch, move backwards and for- wards along the Crofs •, that is, when the long Branch has gone half way about, one of the Aiding Dove-Tails will have moved the whole Length of one of the Branches of the Crofs ; and then, when the long Branch is got quite round, the fame Dove-Tail will go back the whole Length of the Branch: underftand the fame of the other Aiding Dove-Tail.

Note, The Distance between the two Aiding Dove-Tails, is the Distance between the two Foci of theEllipfis j for by changing that Distance, the Ellipfis will more or less fwell.

Underneath the Ends of the Branches of the Crofs, there is placed four Steel-Points, to keep it faft upon the Paper. The Use of this Compass is eafy ; for by turning round the long Branch, the Ink, or Pencil-Point, will draw an Oval, or Ellipfis, required. It's Figure is enough to fliew the Conftruction and Use thereof.

Of Cylindrick and Spberick Compasses.

Fig. M. Figure M is a Pair of Compafles used in taking the Thickneffes of certain Bodies, as Cannon, Pipes, and the like things, which cannot be well done with Compafles of but two Points. Thefe Compafles are made of two Pieces of Brass, or other Metal, having two cir- cular Points, and two flat ones, a little bent at the Ends. When you use them, one of the flat-Points must be put into the Cannon, and the other without ; then the two opposite Points will ftiew the Thicknefs of the Cannon.

Note, The Head of these CompafTes ought to be well drilled in the Center ; that is, if a Line be' drawn from one Point to the opposite one, the said Line must exactly pass thro' the Center-, and when the CompafTes are fhut, all the Points ought to touch one another. " The' Figure N is a Pair of Spherick CompafTes, which differs in nothing from the Con- Fl 'g N * ftruclion of Common CompafTes, except only that the Legs are rounded, to take the Diame- ters of round Bodies, as Bullets, Globes, &V.

Laltly, the Figure O is another Cylindrical Pair of CompafTes, whole j-^egs are equal : The Figure is enough to fhew their ConftrucYion and Use.

Additions to CHAP. I*

Of the Turn-up Compafles , and the Proportional Compafles, with ths

SeSior Lines upu?t them.

Of the Turn-up Compafjes.

T*~ HE Body of these CompafTes, is much like the Body of common CompafTes, nigh the Fig. i. Bottom of which, and on the outward Faces, are adjufted two Steel Points, one of them having a Drawing-Pen Point at the End, and the otlur a Porte-Craion at it's End, fo that they may turn round. Nigh the Middle of the outward Faces, are two little Steel Spring Catches, to hinder the Points giving way when using. The Benefit of this Contrivance, is, that when you want to use a Drawing-Pen Point, or a Pencil, you have no more to do, but turn the Drawing- Fen Point, or the Porte-Craion, until the Steel Points come to the Catch : whereas, in a common Pair of CompafTes, you have the trouble of taking off a Steel Point, in order to put either of the afortfaid Points in it's place. The Figure of these CompafTes is fufficient to fhow their Conflruction and Use.

Of the Proportional Compasses, with the Seftor Lines upon them.

Thefe CompafTes are made of two equal Pieces of Brass or Silver, of any Length, the Breadth Fig. 2. and Thicknefs of which must be proportionable. Along the greateft Part of their Length are two equal Dove-tail Slits made, in each of which go two Sliding DoVe-tails of the fame Length, each having a Hole drilled in the Middle, thro' which pafTes a Rivet, with a turned Cheek fixed at one End (which turned Cheek is faftened to one of the Sliding-Dove-Tails), and a Nut at the other. There is another equal turned Cheek, faftened to the other Dove- tail ; so that the two Sliding Dove-tails, together with the two turned Cheeks and Rivet, make a Curfor to flip up and down the Slits, and likewise ferve as a moveable Joint for the Branches of the CompafTes to turn about.

At the Ends of the aforsaid Pieces of Brass, or Silver, are fixed four equal Steel-Points, the Lengths of each of which must be such, that when the Curfor is flid as far as it can go, to either of the Ends of the Slits, the Center of the Rivet may be exactly \ Parts of the Di- ftance from one Point to the other.

At a small Distance from the four Ends of the two Sliding Dove-tails, are drawn acrofs four Lines, or Marks •, and when the Center of the Rivet is in the Middle between the Points, the Divisions of the Lines on the Broad-Faces, begin from those Lines, and end at them : But the Divisions on the Side-Faces, begin and end against the Center of the Rivet, when ic is in the Middle between the Points

The Lines on the first broad Face of these CompafTes, are, \ft, the Line of Lines, divided into 100 unequal Parts -, every 10th of which are numbered, at the Top of which is writ Lines. idly, A Line of Chords to 60 Degrees, at the Top of which is writ Chords. On the other broad Face, are, 17?, A Line of Sines to 90 Degrees, at the Top of which is writ Sines, idly, A Line of Tangents to 45 Degrees, at the Top of which is writ Tangents.

On the first Side- Face, are the Tangents from 45 Deg. to 71 Deg. 34 Min. to which is writ Tang, and on the second, are the Secants from o Deg. to 70 Deg. 30 Min. to which is writ Sec.

ConftruElion of the Line of Lines on these Compasses.

Draw the Lines AD, C B, of the fame Length that you defign to have the Branches of Fig. & the CompafTes, crofting each other in the Middle G j with one Foot of your CompafTes in A, and the Distance A D, defcribe the Arc ED; and with the fame Distance in the Point B, defcribe the Arc C E: thro' the Points E, G, draw the right Line E M, which will bifeft the Line drawn from C to D, in the Point F; also bifett FD in H, and raife the Perpendicular H R. Now if from the Point R, a right Line be drawn to A, it will cut the Line E M in the Point k ; and if with one Foot of your Compaftes in A, and the Distance Ak, you de- 1'cribe an Arc cutting the Side AD in the Point 50; the said Point 50, on the Side AD, will be the Division for 50 and 50 of the Line of Lines, if the Center of the Curfor was to be did ro the Divisions, when the Compass is using. But because the Lines drawn acrofs near the Ends of the Sliding Dove-tail, are to be flipped to the Divisions, when the Compaftes are to be used, the Division for 50 must be as far beyond the Point 50, as the aforsaid Line on the Sliding Dove-tail, is distant from the Center of the Curfor •, which Distance suppose to be G Q^, or G L it's Equal. Underftand the fame for all other Divisions, which are found in the man- ner that I am now going to (hew.

Divide D H into 50 equal Parts, and from every of which raife Perpendiculars to cut the Arc E D (I have only drawn every 10). Now if from the Point A, to all the Points wherein the Perpendiculars cut the Arc ED, right Lines be drawn, cutting the Line E M ; and if the Distances of these Sections from the Point A, are laid off from the fame Point on the Line A D, the Divisions from o to 50, for the Line of Lines, will be had ; and likewise from 50 to 100, which are at the fame Distance from the Center G •, in obferving to place each of them, found out as diredled, so much further from the Center G, as the Line GQJs distant from it.

The Divisions for the Line of Lines being found, as before directed, they must each of them be transferred to the Face of your Compaftes, and be numbered as per Figure.

Conjlrutlion of the Line of Chords ', Sines, Tangents, and Secants.

ig. 4. Having taken half of the Line of Lines, and divided the Spaces from o to 10, 10 to 20,

20 to 30, 30 to 40, and 40 to 50, into 100 Parts, by means of Diagonals; that half so di- vided, will ferve as a Scale whereby the Tables of Natural Sines, Tangents, and Secants, and the Divisions of all the other Lines on these Compaftes may be eafily made.

Now having Aid the Center of the Curfor to the Middle of the Compaftes, the Beginning and Ending of the Line of Chords must be (as in all the other Lines drawn upon these Com- paftes, two broad Faces) where the Line drawn acrofs the Sliding Dove-tail cuts the Sides of the Slit : then to find where the Division of any Number of Degrees, or half Degrees, fup- pofe 10, must be, look in the Table of Natural Sines for the Sine of 5 Degrees, which is half 10, and you will find it 871.557 ; which doubled, will give the Chord of 10 Degrees, viz. 1743. 1 14: but because the Radius to the Table of Natural Sines, Tangents, and Secants, is 10000, and from the aforsaid Semi-Line of Lines made into a Diagonal Scale, can be taken but 5.00 Parts ; therefore reject the last Figure to the right-hand, together with the Decimals, and you will have 174 for the Chord of 10 Degrees, when the Radius is but 1000, or the Length of the Line of Lines. Now take 174 Parts from the Diagonal Scale, and lay them off from o, on the Parallels drawn to contain the Divisions of the Line of Chords, and you will have the Division for 10 Degrees. Again, to find the Division for 20 Degrees, look for the Natural Sine of 10 Degrees, and it will be found 1736.482 •, which doubled, will give the Chord of 20 Degrees, viz. 3472.964, and rejecting the last Figure to the right-hand, and the Decimals, you will have 347, which being taken from your Diagonal Scale, and laid off from o o on the Parallels, you will have the Division for the Chord of 20 Degrees. In this manner proceed for finding the Divisions for the Chords of any Number of Degrees, or half Degrees. But note, when you come to the Chord of 29 Degrees, you are got to the furtheft Division from the Center ; because, from the Table of Sines, the Chord of 29 Deg. is half Radius (or at least near enough half for this Use), or 500, and confequently the Length of your whole Scale : therefore you must, for the Divisions of the Chords of any Number of De- grees above 29, lay off the Parts above 500, taken on the Diagonal Scale, from the Division of 29 Degrees, back again towards the Center, on the other Side the Slit, to 60. As for Example •, to find the Division for the Chord of 40 Degrees ; the Chord is 684, from which 500 being fubftracted, you must take the Remainder 184 from your Diagonal Scale, and lay it offjowards the Center, on the Parallels drawn on the other Side of the Slit, from a Point over-against the Division for the Chord of 29 Degrees ; and so for any other.

The Lines of Sines, or Tangents, on the other broad Face of these Compaftes, are made in the fame manner as the Line of Chords is: As, for Example, to make the Division for the Sine of any Number of Degrees, suppose 10 ; you will find from the Table of Natural Sines, that the Sine of 10 Degrees is 173 ; whence lay off 173 Parts, taken on the Diagonal Scale, from the Beginning of the Lines drawn to contain the Divisions, and you will have the Point for the Sine of 10 Degrees. Again ; to find the Division for the Sine of 25 Degrees, you will find from the Table, that 422 is the Sine of 25 Degrees ; therefore take on your Scale 422 Parts, and lay them off from o, and you will have the Division for the Sine of 25 Degrees. Thus proceed for the Divisions of any other Number of Degrees, until you come to 30, whose Sine is equal to Half-Radius, and from 30 back again to 90, in obferving the Directions afore- given about the Chords, when they return towards the Center.

The Divisions for the Tangent of any Number of Degrees, suppose 10, are likewise thus found; for the Tangent of 10 Degrees, by the Table, is 176; wherefore taking 176 Parts from your Scale, and laying them off from o o on the Parallels drawn to contain the Divisions, the Division for the Tangent of 10 Degrees will be had. Again ; to find the Division for the Tangent of 25 Degrees -, by the Table of Tangents, the Tangent of 25 Degrees will be found a66 , whence taking 466 Parts from your Scale, and laying them off from o o, you will have the Division for the Tangent of 25 Degrees. Thus proceed for the Divisions of the Tangents of any other Number of Degrees, until you come to the Division of the Tangent of 26 Deg. [yjj n . which is half the Radius ; and from 26 Deg. 30 Min. back again to 45 Deg. whole Tano-tnt is equal to Radius, in obferving the Directions afore-given about the Line ol Chords, when they return.

The Conltruction of the Tangents to a second and third Radius, on the side Face of these Compafles, is thus: Let the Beginning of the second Radius, which is at the Tangent of 45 l&gt;&lt;/rees, be in the Middle between the Points of the Compafles; because when the Compasses is ufnuT, a little Notch in the Side of the turned Cheek, which is directly against the Center of the'Curfor, is (lid to the Divisions: then to make the Divisions for the Tangents of the Decrees, and every 15 Minutes, from the Tangent of 45, to the Tangent of 56 Degrees, and about 20 Minutes, which is half a second Radius, you must look for the refpective Tangents in the Table of Natural Tangents •, and having caft away the last Figure to the right-hand, and the Decimals (which always do), fubftract 1000 from each of them, because that is equal to one of our Radius's, and the Remainders take from your Sole, and lay off from 45 -, fo shall you have the Divisions to the Tangent of 56 Deg. and about 20 Min. Then again, to have the Divisions from 56 Deg. 20 Min. to 63 Deg. and 27 Min. the Tangent of which is equal to 2000, or two of our Radius's, you must fubftract 1500, which is 2 and a half of our Radius's, from every of the refpective Tangents, found and ordered as before directed -, and then take each of the Remainders from the Scale, and lay them off from 56 Deg. 20 Min. on the Top, and you will have the Divisions of the Tangents of the Degrees, and every 15 Min. from -56 Dtg. 20 Min. to 62 Deg. 27 Min. which will fall against 45 Deo-. n the Side of the other Branch. Again ; to find the Divisions of the Tangents ol the Degrees, and every 15 Minutes, from 63 Deg. 27 Min- to 68 Deg. 12 Min. which makes two Radius's and a half, or 2500, you must fubftract 2000 from each of the Tangents, found and ordered as alorefaid, and the Remainders must be taken off your Scale, and laid off from 63 Deg. 27 Min. and you will have the Divisions for the Tangents of the Degrees, and every 15 Min. from 63 Deg. 27 Min. to 68 Deg. 12 Min. Lajlly, To have the Divisions from 68 Deg. 12 Min. to 71 Deg. 34 Min. which ends at 45 Deg. and makes up the third Radius, or 3000 : you mult fubftract 2500 from each of the Tangents found in the Table, and ordered as before directed -, and take off the Remainders from your Scale, which laid off upwards from 68 Deg. 12 Min. will give the Divisions for the Tangents of the Degrees, and every 15 Minutes, be- tween 68 Deg. 12 Min. and 71 Deg. 34 Min.

The Divisions for the Secants, on the other narrow Face of the Compafles, which run from o Degrees, in the Middle between the two Points of the Compassts, to 70 Degrees, 32 Minutes, that is, which are the Secants to a second and third Radius (like as the Tangents last mentioned) are made exactly in the fame manner, from the Table of Natural Secants, as those Tangents to a second and third Radius are made.

USE e/ these Proportional Compares.

U S E I. To divide a given right Line into any Number of equal Parts, less than 100.

DWide 100 by the Number of equal Parts the Line is to be divided into, and flip the Cur- for fo, that the Line drawn, upon the Aiding Dove-Tail, may be against the Quotient on the Line of Lines : then taking the whole Extent of the Line between the two Points of the Com- pafles, that are furtheft distant from the Center of the Curfor, and afterwards applying one of the two opposite Points to the Beginning or End of the given Line, and the other opposite Point will cut off from it one of the equal Parts that the Line is to be divided into.

As, for Example •, To divide the Line A B into two equal Parts : 100, divided by 2, gives Fig. J. 50 for the Quotient i therefore flip the Line on the Dove-Tail to the Division 50 on the Line of Lines, and taking the whole Extent of the Line AB between the Points furtheft from the Center ■, then one of the opposite Points fet in A or B, and the other will fall on the Point D, which will divide the Line A B in two equal Parts.

Again -, to divide a right Line into three equal Parts, divide 100 by 3, and the Quotient will be 33.3 •, therefore flip the Line of the Dove-Tail to the Division 33, and for the three Tenths conceive the Division between 33 and 34 to be divided into 10 equal Parts, and rea- sonably eftimate 3 of them. Proceed as before, and you will have a third Part of the said Line, and therefore it may eafily be divided into 3 equal Parts. Moreover, to divide a given Line into 50 equal Parts, divide 100 by 50, and the Quotient will be 2 ; therefore flip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Division 2 on the Line of Lines. Proceed as at first, and you will have a 50th Part of the Line proposed ; whence it will be eafy to divide it into 50 equal Parts.

Note, If each of the Subdivifions, on the Line of Lines, be supposed to be divided into 100 equal Parts j then a Line may, by means of the Line of Lines on these Compafles, be divided into any Number of equal Parts less than 1000. As, for Example ; to divide a Line into 500 equal Parts : Divide 1000 by 500, and the Quotient will be 2 j therefore flip the Line, on the Dove-Tail, to 2 Tenths of one of the Subdivifions of 100, and proceed, as at first diredted, and you will have the 500th Part of the Line given, which afterwards may eafily be divided into 500 equal Parts. Again •, To divide a Line into 200 equal Parts : divide 1000 by 200, and the Quotient will be 50 •, therefore flip the Line, on the Dove- Tail, to 5 of the Subdivifions of 100, on the Line of Lines, which will now reprefent 50 •, proceed as at first, and you will have the 200th Part of the Line given : therefore it will be eafy to di- vide it into 200 equal Parts. Moreover, to divide a given Line into 150 equal Parts, divide 1000 by 150, and the Quotient will be 6.6 ; wherefore reasonably eftimate 6 of the 10 equal Parts that the first of the Subdivifions of 100 is supposed to be divided into, and flip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the 6th ; then proceeding as at first, and the Line may be di- vided into 150 equal Parts. If a Line be so long, that it cannot be taken between the Points of your Compasscs, you must take the half, third, or fourth Part, isc. and proceed with that as before directed •, then one of the Parts found being doubled, trebled, &c. will be the cor- refpondent Part of the whole Line.

U S E II. A right Line being given, and supposed to be divided into 100 equal Parts :

to take any Number of those Parts.

Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove- Tail, to the Number of Parts to be taken, as io-, then the Extent of the whole Line being taken between the Points of the CompafTes, furtheft di- ftant from the Curfor, if one of the opposite Points be fet in either Extreme of the given Line, the other will cut off the Part required.

USE III. The Radius being given ; to find the Chord of any Arc under 60 Degrees.

Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Degrees fought on the Line of Chords •, then take the Radius between the Points of the CompafTes, furtheft distant from the Center of the Curfor, and the Extent, between the two opposite Points, will be the Chord fought, if the given Number of Degrees be greater than 29, whose Chord is nearly Half-Radius-, but if the Number of Degrees be less than ig, then the Distance of the two opposite Points, taken from Radius, will be the Chord of the Degrees required.

If the Chord of a Number of Degrees under 60 is given, and the Radius to it be required; you must fiip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Degrees given on the Line of Chords ; and taking the Length of the given Chord between the two Points of your Com- pafTes, that are nigheft the Curfor, the Extent of the two other opposite Points will be the Radius required. Fig. 6. Example, for the first Part of this Use : Suppose the Length of the Radius be the Line

A B, and the Chord of 35 Degrees be required •, Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to 35 Degrees on the Line of Chords •, take the whole Extent of the Line A B between the Points of the CompafTes, furtheft distant from the Curfor ; and placing one of the opposite Points in the Point A, the other Point will give the Extent A D for the Chord of 35 Degrees. Again ; To find the Chord of 9 Degrees : Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to 9 De- grees on the Line of Chords ; then take the Extent of the Radius, which suppose A B, be- tween the two Points of the CompafTes, furtheft distant from the Center ; and placing one of the opposite Points in the Point A, the other will fall on the Point C, and the Difference be- tween A B and A C, viz. C B, will be the Chord of 9 Degrees.

USE IV. The Radius being given, suppose the Line A B ; to find the Sine of any Num- ber of Degrees, as 50.

Fig. 7 . Slip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to 50 Degrees on the Line of Sines ; then if the

Extent A B be taken between the two Points of the CompafTes, furtheft from the Curfor, and one of the opposite Points be fet in the Point A, the other will give A C for the Sine of 50 Degrees ; but if the Sine fought be lefTer than the Sine of 30 Degrees, which is equal to Half-Radius, the Difference, between the Extents of the opposite Points, will be the Sine of the Angle required.

USE V. The Radius being given ; to find the Tangent of any Number of Degrees, not

above 7 1 .

If the Tangent of the Degrees, under 26 and 30 Minutes, whose Tangent is equal to Half- Radius, be fought : You must Aip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Degrees pro- pofed on the Line of Tangents ; and then take the Radius between the Points of the Com- pafTes, furtheft distant from the Curfor, and the Difference between the opposite Points will be the Tangent of the Number of Degrees proposed.

If the Tangent of any Number of Degrees above 26 and 30 Minutes, and under 45, be fought •, then you must Aip the Line, on the Aiding Dove-Tail, to the Number of Degrees given on the Tangent-Line, and take the Radius between the Points of the CompafTes furtheft from the Curfor •, then the Distance, between the two opposite Points, will be the Tangenc of the Degrees required.

If the Tangent required be greater than 45 Degrees, but less than 56 Degrees, and about eo Minutes \ you must Aip the Notch, on the Side of the turned Cheek, to the Degrees of the Tangents upon the Side of the CompaHes, and take the Radius, between the Points of the Compasses, furtheft distant frorh theCurlor j the Difference between the opposite Points, added to Radius,' will be the Tangent of the Degrees fought.

If the Tangent required be greater than that of 56 Degrees, 20 Minutes, but less than 63 Degrees, 27 Minutes, you must flip the Notch to the Degrees proposed, and take the Ra- dius as' before, between the Points of the Companies •, then the Extent, between the two op- tionee Points, added to Radius, will be the Tangent required.

If the Tangent required be greater than 63 Degrees, 27 Minutes, but less than 68 De- grees i you must flip the Notch, on the Side of the turned Cheek, to the Degrees proposed, and take the Radius between the Points of the Compasses, as before 5 then the Difference be- tween the opposite Points, added to twice Radius, will be the Tangent of the Degrees pro-

Laitly, If the Tangent be greater than 68 Degrees, but less than 71, you must add the Distance between the opposite Points of the CompalTes, to two Radius's, and the Sum will be the Tangent of the Degrees fought.

The Secant of any Number of Degrees, under 70, by having Radius given, in obferving the aforsaid Directions about the Tangents, may be eafily found*

CHAP. II.

Of the ConftruElion of divers Mathematical Instruments.

Of the Sliding Porte-Craion, or Pencil-Holder.

THIS Instrument is commonly about four or five Inches long, the Outfide of which is Plate id filed into eight Faces, and the Infide perfectly round, in which a Porte-Craion is put, Fig. A. which may be flid up and down by means of a Spring and Button, of which we shall fpeak hereafter. The CompalTes of the Figure B is made to fcrew into one End of this Instrument.

There are commonly drawn, upon the Faces of this Porte-Craion, the Sector-Lines, whose manner of drawing is the fame, as those on the Sector -, and their Use is the fame as the Use of those on the Sector, excepting only that they are not so general. For Example •, If you have a mind to make an Angle of 40 Degrees upon a given Line ; take the Extent of 60 De- grees of the Line of Chords, and therewith defcribe an Arc upon the given Line: then take the Extent of 40 Degrees, and lay off upon that Arc, and from it's Center draw a Line, which will make an Angle of 40 Degrees with the given Line.

Note, There are also round Instruments of this kind, whose Outsides are divided into In- ches, and each Inch into Lines.

This is ai. other Porte-Craion made of Brass, round within, and commonly so without, hav- pig. C, ing the Porte-Craion of Figure D made to flip up and down in it. In the Ends of the said Porte- raion are put Pencils, which are made faft by two Rings •, and in the Middle is placed a well-hammered Brass or Steel Spring, having a Female Screw made in it at 1, in order to receive the Male Screw at the End of the Button E, which goes thro' a Slit made in the Body of the Instrument. The Figure, and what I have said, is enough to fhew the Nature of this Porte-Craion.

Of the Fountain-Pen*

This Instrument is compofed of different Pieces of Brass, Silver, &c. and when the Pieces Fig. F. F G 1 J are put together, they are about five Inches long, and it's Diameter is about three Lines. The middle Piece F carries the Pen, which ought to be well flit, and cut, and fcrewed into the Infide of a littler Pipe, which is foldered to another Pipe of the fame Bignefs, as the Lid G •, in which Lid is foldered a Male Screw, for fcrewing on the Cover : as likewise for ltopping a little Hole at the Place 1, and so hindering the Ink from running through it. At the other End of the Piece F, there is a little Pipe, on the Outfide of which the Top-Covef H may be fcrewed on. In this Top-Cover there goes a Porte-Craion, that is to fcrew into the last mentioned little Pipe, and so flop the End of the Pipe at which the Ink is poured in, by means of a Funnel.

When the aforementioned Pen is to be used, the Cover G must be taken off, and the Pen a little fhaken, in order to make the Ink run freely. Note, If the Porte-Craion does not ftop the Mouth of the Piece F, the Air, by it's Prefiure, will caufe the Ink all to run out at once. Note, also, That some of these Pens have Seals foldered at their Ends.

Of Pincers for holding Papers together \

This little Instrument is made of two well-hammered thin Pieces of Brass, fattened together Fig. I. at top, and having a Brass Spring between them, and a Ferril, that Aides up and down, in order to draw them together. Ttie whole Piece is about two Inches long, and it's Figure is enough to fhew the Conftruction and Use thereof.

Of the Pentograpb, or Parallelogram.

Pig k This Instrument, called a Pentograpb, as ferving to copy any manner of Designs, is com- peted or four Brass, or very hard Wooden Rulers, very equal in Breadth and Thicknefs ; two of them being from 15 to 18 Inches in Length, and the other two but half of their Length, and their Thicknefs is ufually 2 or 3 Lines, and Breadth 5 or 6.

The Exactnefs of this Instrument very much depends upon having the Holes made at the Ends, and in the Middle of the longelt Rulers, at an equal Distance from the Holes at the Ends of the fhortelt Rulers •, for this Reason, That being put together, they may always make a Parallelogram : and when the Instrument is to be used, there are fix small Pieces of Brass put on it.

The Piece 1 is a little turned Brass Pillar, at one End of which is a Screw and Nut, ferving to join and fatten the two long Rulers together 5 and at the other is a little Knob for the In- ftrument to Hide upon. The Piece 2 is a turned-headed Rivet, with a Screw and Nut at the End ; two of which there mult be for joining the two Ends of the two fhort Rulers to the Middle of the long ones, at the Places 2, 2. The Piece 3 is a Brass Pillar, one End of it be- ino- hollowed into a Screw, having a Nut to fit it ; and at the other End is a Worm to fcrew into the Table, when the Instrument is to be used. This Piece holds the two Ends of the fhort Rulers together, at Fig. 3. Fig. 4. is a Porte-Craion, or Pen, which may be fcrewed into the Pillar 4, which is fixed on at the Place 4, to the End of the great Ruler. Laftly, Fig. 5. is a Brass Point, fomething blunt, fcrewed into a Pillar like one- of the former ones, which is fcrewed on to the End of the other long Ruler. This Instrument being put together, and disposed, as per Figure, the next thing will be to fhew it's Use.

Now when a Design, of the fame Bignefs as the Original, is to be copied, the Instrument nmft be disposed, as in Figure K ; that is, you mull: fcrew the Worm into the Table at the Place 3, and lay the Paper under the Pencil 4, and the Design under the Point 5 ; then there is no more to do but move the Point 5 over every part of the Design 5, and at the fame time the Pencil, at Figure 4, will mark the said Design upon your Paper. But if the Design is to be reduced, or made less by half, the Worm must be placed at one F,nd of the long Ruler, the Paper and the Pencil in the Middle, and then you must make the Brass Point pass over all the Tracls of the Design, and the Pencil at the fame time will alio have defcribed all those Tracts j but they will be of but half the Length of the Tracts of the Design : for this reason ; btcaufe the Pencil, placed in the manner aforsaid, moves but half the Length, in the fame time, as the Brass Point does. And, for the contrary Reason, if a Design is to be aug- mented, for Example, twice the Original, the Brass Point and the Design must be placed in the Middle, at Figure 3, the Pencil and Paper at the End of one of the long Rulers, and the Worm at the End of the other long Ruler •, by this means a Design twice the Original may be drawri.

But to augment or diminish Designs in other Proportions, there are drilled Holes at equal Distances upon each Ruler, viz. all along the fhort ones, and half-way the great ones, in or- der to place the Pieces carrying the Brass-Point, the Pencil, and the Worm in a right Line in them •, that is, if the Piece carrying the Brass-Point be put into the third Hole, the two other Pieces must be likewise each put into the third Hole.

Note, If the Point and the Design be placed at any one of the Holes of one of these great Rulers, and the Pencil with the Paper under one of the Floles of the fhort Ruler, which forms the Angle, and joins to the Middle of the said long Ruler, that then the Copy will be less than half the Original : But if the Pencil and Paper be placed under one of the Holes of that fhort Ruler, which is parallel to the long Ruler, then the Copy will be greater than half the Original. In a word, all these different Proportions will be eafily found by Expe-

Fig. M. This little Instrument, whose Use is to find the Weight of very fine and round Pearls, is made of five thin Pieces, or Leaves, of Brass, or other Metal, about two Inches long, and fix or seven Lines broad. The said Leaves have several round Holes drilled in them of diffe- rent Diameters •, the Holes in the first Leaf ferve for weighing Pearls from half a Grain to 7 Grains ; those in the second Leaf are for Pearls from 8 Grains, which is 2 Carats, to 5 Carats •, those in the third for Pearls weighing from 2 ; Carats to 5 ' Carats •, the fourth for Pearls weighing from 6 Carats to 8 ; and the fifth for Pearls weighing from 6 f Carats to 8 ^.

Now the Diameters of the greateft and least Holes of each Leaf being found, by weighing of Pearls in nice fine Scales, the Diameters of all the other Holes from thence, by proportion, may be found.

The Hole, fhewing the Weight of a Pearl of one Grain, is 2 ' Lines in Diameter ; that fhewing the Weight of a Pearl of 2 Carats, is 2 ; Lines-, that fhewing the Weight of a Pearl of 5 Carats, is 4 Lines •, that fhewing 2 t Carats, is 2 - v ; that of 5 -*- Carats, is 4 [- Lines ; that of 6 Carats, is 4 ' Lines-, that of 8 Carats, is 4 \ Lines; and, Laftly, the Dia- meter of that I lole for Pearls weighing 8 I Carats, is 4 : Lines.

The Leaves are fattened together at one End by a Rivet, about which they are moveable, and included between two thin Pieces of Brass, ferving as a Cafe for them.

Jewellers likewise use little Scales, and very small Weights, which they call Carats, to weioh Diamonds, and other precious Stones, as also Pearls that be not round. A Carat is 4 Grams, and is divided into 4, 4, -*-, and 4 of a Carat : the word Carat is also used for the De- grees of Perfection of Gold ; as a Carat of fine Gold is the 24th part of an Ounce of pure Gold, which is so foft, that it cannot be worked ; for which Reason the Goldfmiths of Pa- ris use Gold of 22 Carats, that is, 22 Parts of fine Gold, and two Parts of Brass ; by which Mixture it is rendered harder and fitter to work.

Of the Fixed Square.

This Instrument is called a Fixed Square, because it's Sides do not open or fhut ; all it's F »g- L. Exattnefs confifts in being very ftrait, and that both the inward and outward Faces of the two Sides be at right Angles ; which that they may be, it is necefiary for them to be pa- rallel to each other.

The Figure N is another Square, which opens or fhuts. Thefe Squares principal Uses are to know whether any Line or Plane be at right Angles to another.

Of the Foot-Level.

This Instrument is compofed of two Branches of Brass, or other Matter, about half an Fig. O, Inch broad, and opens and fhuts like a Two-foot Rule ; half-way the Infide of both these Branches are hollowed in, to receive a kind of Tongue, or thin Piece of Brass (which is fattened to one of the Branches) that so the two Branches may be fhut clofe together. The Use of this Tongue, is such, that when the End of it is placed in the Branch it is not fattened to, where there is a Pin that holds it, the two Branches of the Level will be fixed at right Angles, as per Figure. There is likewise a thin square Piece of Brass adjufted to the Head of this Instrument, that so it may ferve for a Square, and at the Bottom of the Angle of the said Piece of Brass is a little Hole made, in which is fattened a Silken Line, with a Plummet at the End thereof; which falling upon a perpendicular Line, drawn on the Middle of the Tongue, fhews whether any thing the Instrument is applied to be level or not. Note, The inward Angles of the Branches are cut away, that so the Instrument may better ftand upon a Plane to be levelled. Note also, That this Instrument ferves for a Level, a Square, and a Foot-Rule.

Of the Paris Foot-Rule, and the Comparifon of it's Length with that of other Countries.

The Conftrudtion of the Body of this Instrument does not differ from that of the Sector be- Fig. P. Fore fpoken of; and when the Paris Foot is only put thereon, each Leg is but about five Lines in Breadth ; but when the Foot of other Countries, compared with the Paris Foot, is put thereon, it is made broader. I shall here lay down the Comparifon between the Foot of molt chief Towns in Europe, compared with that of Paris.

A Point is ~, of an ordinary Grain of Barley ; a Line is 12 Points, or theThicknefs of one Grain of Barley ; an Inch is 12 Lines, and a Foot is 12 Inches. The Foot Royal of Pa~ ris is 12 of the aforsaid Inches, but fometimes it is divided into 720, or 1440 equal Parts, for better expretting it's Relations to the Meafures of other Countries. The Foot of Lyons and Grenoble is fomething bigger than that of Paris ; for it contains 12 Inches, 7 Lines. The Foot of Dijon is letter, and contains but 1 1 Inches, 7 Lines •, that of Befanfon 1 1 Inches, 5 Lines i that of Macon 12 Inches, 4 Lines; and the Foot of Rouen is equal to thatofPtfnV.

Some other Measures compared with the Paris Foot.

A Roman Palme is 8 Inches, 2 Lines •, that of Genoa is 9 Inches, 1 Line ; that of Naples is 9 Inches, 9 Lines-, and that of Portugal, is 8 Inches, 2 Lines.

A Pan, which is a Meafure used in many Places of Italy, is 8 or 9 Inches.

The Ell of Paris, is 3 Feet 8 Inches ; that of Provence, Montpelier, and Avignon, is i- of that of Paris, and the I'll of Flanders and Germany, is , 7 , of that o: \ Paris.

The Fathom of Milan, used by Mercers, is 1 Foot, 7 Inches, 4 Lines ; and that of Linen-Drapers, is 2 Foot, 1 1 Inches.

A Fathom of Florence is 1 Foot, 9 Inches, 6 Lines.

The Ras of Piedmont and Lucca is 22 Inches.

The Yard of Seville is 30 Inches, 1 1 Lines.

The Varre of Madrid and Portugal is 3 Foot, 9 Lines.

The Varre of Spain in general is 5 Foot, 5 Inches, 6 Lines.

The Cane of Touloufe is of the fame Length.

The Cane of Rome is 6 Feet, 1 1 Inches, 7 Lines.

The Cane of Naples is 6 Feet, 1 o Inches, 2 Lines.

The Pic of Conjlantinople is 2 Foot, 2 Inches, 2 Lines.

The Geufe of India and Per/ia is 2 Foot, 10 Inches, 1 1 Lines.

Conjlruclion of Parallel Rules.

Fig R. Thefe Instruments are commonly made of Brass, or hard Wood, from 6 to 18 Inches in

Length, and about two Lines in Thicknefs : the two parallel Pieces ought to be very ftraight every way, and parallel, that is, very equal in Breadth from one End to the other ; for this is the chief thing upon which the Exactnefs of these Instruments depends.

The two parallel Pieces of this Instrument are joined together by two Brass Blades, from about 2 to 3 4 Inches long, and 6 Lines broad, filed and fafhioned, as per Figure, near the Ends of which are round Holes very equally drilled thro' them, which ought to be done by laying them one upon the other. Then the parallel Pieces muff, be divided Length-wife into two equal Parts, and afterwards one of the Halves of each into 3 equal Parts, and at the first of these Parts from the Middle, a Flole muil be made in each parallel Piece, in the Middle of their Breadth, in which must be placed two turned-headed Rivets, for joining one End of each Blade to the said parallel Piece. Likcwifed, near, and equally distant from the two op- pofite Ends of each Piece, mufl two more Holes be made, in which must be put two more Rivets, for joining the other two Ends of the two Blades, to the parallel Pieces. The Pieces being thus joined, if you move them backwards and forwards, to the right-hand and the left, and the inward Edges of the said Pieces do exactly meet each other, it is a fign the Rule is well made.

Pj K o The Figure Q^, is another kind of parallel Rule, the two parallel Pieces of which, are joined together by two others fomething fhorter, which are joined to each other in the Middle, and make a kind of Crofs, which opening or fhutting, caufe the two parallel Pieces to recede parallelly from, or accede to each other. In the Middle of each parallel Piece of both these Instruments, is fixed a Brass Button, for more eafier managing them.

The principal Use ot these Instruments, is to draw parallel Lines, by opening or fhutting the parallel Pieces, and are of excellent Use in Architecture and Fortification, wherein a great Number of parallel Lines are to be drawn.

Conjlruclion of the Pedometer or Waywifer.

Fig. S. This Instrument is about two Inches in Diameter, commonly about 7 Lines in Thicknefs, and hath all it's Parts joined together a Cafe, almost like that of a Watch. The Plate T, is placed in the Bottom of the Cafe, upon which are fattened several Pieces, as they appear per Figure. The Piece 1, is a little Steel Catch with it's two Springs ; this Catch is held by a round Tenon going into a Hole in the said Plate, so that by pulling the Piece F, which is fattened to one End of the Catch, the said Catch turns round the Steel Star 2, having 6 Points, and carrying a Pinion of Six Teeth of the fame Height as the two Wheels, of which we are going to fpeak. The Spring 4, is for hindering the Star from going back •, and that marked 5, is to lift up the End of the Catch, when it hath made the Star move one Point forwards.

The Plate V is like the Plate T, only it hath upon it two equal Wheels placed on each other-, the upper Wheel hath 100 Teeth, and the under one 101, which are both put in Mo- tion by the Pinion upon the Star •, so that when the upper Wheel hath gone round once, and run 100 equal Parts, with it's Hand upon the greater Dial-Plate S •, the Wheel which hath 101 Teeth, wants one of going round, and makes the leffer Hand move the !- Part of the Circumference of the leffer Dial- Plate the contrary way, whence the greater Hand mufl go round 100 times, before the little Hand hath gone round once the contrary way ; and con- fequeiitly, the Piece F must be pulled 10000 times, before the little Hand will go round once : there are 3 Tenons fixed to the under Plate, by means of which, the upper Plate is fattened to it with little Pins.

The whole Machine is inclofed in it's Cafe, covered with a GJafs, and having on one Side of it two Rings, thro' which a String is put for hanging the Instrument to any thing; and at the other Side'of the Cafe, is an Opening left for the Piece F to come out thro', which Piece receives a String fattened to one's Garter.

The Use of this Instrument is such, that being hung to a Perfon's Belt, at each Tenfion of the Knee, that is, every time he ftcps forwards, the String pulls the Piece F, and this the Catch, which caufes the greater Hand to move one Division forwards. When any Perfon hath a mind to know how many Paces he hath moved, he must look upon the Dial-Plate, and that will inform him. Note, A Pace is nearly 2 Foot, and a Perfon in walking may so ac- cuilom himfelf, as to take his Steps of that Length ; but when Ground is not level, Paces are not equal, for in defcending they are longer, and in afcending fhorter, which must be regard- ed, and corrected by Experience.

There are also these kinds of Instruments made, and fitted to Wheels of known Circum- ferences •, for Example, a Fathom round : so that every time the Wheel comes to a certain point, where there is a Tenon which pulls the Piece F, the Catch caufes the larger Hand to move'one Division forwards ; and by this means you may know how many Fathom you have

gone.

Pedometers are likewise adjufted behind Coaches, so that when one of the great Wheels of a Coach comes to a certain Point, it caufes the Catch to move the Hand one Division forwards, so that in knowing the Circumference of the said Wheel, the Length the Coach hath moved may be known.

Not.;, ' The leffer Dial-Plate must be carried round by the upper Wheel of ioo Teeth, or 4 t lie it will not at any time be eafy to tell, how many Paces you have gone by the said lefTef 4 Plate, but must ftay 'till the Hand of the greater Plate hath made one Revolution.'

The Confiruciion of a Machine for cutting and dividing the Wheels, and Pinions of Clocks, or Watches.

The Machine A, is for cutting and dividing the Wheels and Pinions of Clocks and Watches, and is very commodious, and extremely fhortens the Time of doing them.

The Plate A is made of Brass, very even, about 8 Inches Diameter, and one Line in Thick- Fig. i, nefs, having several Concentrick Circles drawn upon it, whose Peripheries are divided into several even or uneven Numbers of equal Parts, the greater of which are always more distant from the Center.

As for Example •, to divide the Periphery of one of the Circles into 120 equal Parts, you must first divide the said Periphery into 2 equal Parts, each of which will be 60, which again fubdivide by 2, and each Part will be 30 ; which again divided by 2, and each Part will be 15, which being divided by 3, produces 5. Laftly, dividing each of these last Parts by 5, the whole Periphery will be found divided in 120 equal Parts.

But if one of the Circles is to be divided into an odd Number of equal Parts, for Example, into 81, you must first divide it into 3 equal Parts, each of which will be 27, which being divided by ?, will produce 9 ; each of which being divided by 3, will produce 3 ; each of which being again divided by 3, will produce 1 : wherefore the Periphery of the Circle will be divided into 81 equal Parts.

The like may be done for any other Number, in taking the most proper aliquot Parts there- of, to make a proposed Division.

The Circles of the Plate being divided, there ought to be made, at every Division, small round Holes, with a fine Steel Point.

Now when a Clock Wheel is to be fimply divided by means of these Concentrick Circles, in order to cut it with the Hand, the said Wheel must be placed upon the Arbre in the Center of the Plate, and having fixed it faft, you must divide it with a fine Steel Ruler, one End of it being placed in the Center : then by moving the said Ruler round from Division to Division, upon the Circumference of one of the Concentrick Circles, anfwerable to the Number of Teeth the Wheel is to have, the Wheel may be divided •, which being done, the Teeth must be made with a very fine File, obferving to leave as much Space between them, as you file away.

But when this Machine is used to very expeditioufly cut Clock Wheels, it is compofed in the following Manner.

Fig. 1. reprefents the Plan of the whole Machine put together, and fit for Use.

The Piece 1, is a Steel Saw- Wheel, the Breadth of the Interval between the Teeth of a Wheel to be cut by it: this Saw- Wheel is placed upon a square Arbre, as likewise a little Pully, to turn it between two Steel Points. The Place 2, is the Porte-Touret, having a Motion at the two Ends thereof, like the Head of a Pair of Compares, that so the file Wheel may be raifed, or lowered, at pleafure.

At the Place 1, of Figure 2, is the Saw-Wheel put upon it's Arbre, as likewise the Pully between the two Steel Points, that are fattened by 2 headed-Screws 7, 7. The two Ends of the Porte-Touret, are reprefented by 2, 2. The Screws 9, 9, are for fixing the Part of the Machine carrying the Saw- Wheel, upon the Square Iron Ruler 3, which is put thro' a square Hole, between the Screws 9, 9. There are two of the said Iron Rulers, that is, there is one above the circular Brass Plate, and another underneath it, both of them being of a convenient Bignefs, and are so fattened together at the Ends by strong Screws, that there is room enough left between them for the circular Brass Plate, and also for the Touret, or Frame, and a kind of Spring, which carries the Point (of which we (hall fpeak prefently), to Aide freely along the lquare Iron Ruler 3.

Figure 3, reprefents the Side-Draught of the whole Machine put together, whereof the Piece 1, is the Touret, or Frame, placed near the Wheel to be cut, which is reprefented by Number 6 : this Wheel is placed in the Center of the Brass Plate, and is faflened by the Arbre Screw. The Piece 3, is the Iron Ruler along which the Touret of Figure 2 Aides, as also the Spring carrying the Point 4 : and Number 5 is a Piece of Iron, by means of which the Machine may be fafbened in a Vice, when it is to be used.

Figure 4, is a very fine and well -tempered Steel-Point, fcrewed into the End of a kind of Spring, having a circular Motion, that thereby the said Steel-Point may be put into any of the Holes of the Circumferences of either of the concentrick Circles upon the Plate. There is likewise another Piece joined to the Spring, is order to keep, by means of a Screw, the Point upon any proposed Division of the Circumference of any of the concentrick Circles, while one Tooth of a Wheel is fawing.

Laftly, Figure 5, is the Arbre placed in the Center of the Machine, and upon which is put the Wheels to be cut, which are firmly fixed thereon, by means of Screws at the Top and Bottom. There are commonly several Arbres of different BignefTes, in proportion to the Holes in the Centers of Wheels to be cut.

The Use of this Machine is eafy, for you have no more to do but fix a Wheel to be cut into Teeth, in the Center (at Number 6), and then fit the Spring (reprefented by Fig. 4.) fo that it's Point may exactly fall upon the Divisions of that concentrick Circle, which is divid- ed into the fame Number of equal Parts you defign your Wheel to have Teeth ; and then you mull move the Touret, with it's Saw-Wheel, to cut the Wheel, by means of a Male- Screw (one End of which goes into a round Hole 8, in the Bottom of the Touret, and is there faflened with a Pin), and a Female Screw to fit it, at the End of the Iron Ruler, denoted by Number 5 •, so that by turning the said Male-Screw, the Touret may be moved back- wards and forwards at pleafure. The Saw-Wheel being thus placed, you must turn it 4 or 5 times about, by means of a Bow, whose String is put about the Pully, and then one Side of a Tooth will be cut; and having moved the Steel-Point 4, to the next Division in the Cir- cumference of that concentrick Circle upon the Plate, whose Divisions are the fame in Num- ber you defign your Wheel to have Teeth, give 4 or 5 Strokes with the Bow, and the other Side of the 1 ooth will be cut : and in this manner may all the Teeth be cut ; Pinions are also thus cut.

Note, There are Saw- Wheels of divers ThicknefTes, conformable to the Space there ought to be left between the Teeth of different Wheels.

The ConftruEiion of Armour for Load-Stones, as also how to cut the said Stones, in order to

arm them.

The Figures 6, 7, reprefent two armed Load-Stones -, the firfl in the Form of a Parallele- pipedon, and the second in the Form of a Sphere : But before we fhew the bed way of arm- ing them, we will enumerate some of the Properties and Virtues of Load- Stones.

The Load-Stone is a very hard and heavy Stone, found in Iron Mines, and is almofl the Colour of Iron, for which reason it is reckoned among the Metallick Kind : it hath two won- derful Properties, one whereof is to attract Iron, and the other to direct itfelf towards the Poles of the World.

The Load-Stone attracts Iron, and reciprocally Iron attracts the Load-Stone, notwithstand- ing any other Body's Interpofition between them. This Stone likewise communicates to Iron a Faculty of attracting Iron : For Example, an Iron Ring that hath been touched with a good Load-Stone, will lift up another Iron Ring by only touching it, and this second a third, &c. but the firfl Ring must have a greater Degree of Attraction, than the second, and the second than the third, &V.

The Blade of a Knife that hath been touched with a Load-Stone, will likewise lift up Needles, and small Pieces of Iron : also several Sewing-Needles being laid upon a Table in a Row, and a Load-Stone being brought near the firfl, by which receiving the Magnetick Virtue, the said firfl Needle will attract the second, the second the third, &c. 'till they all come together.

That Iron reciprocally attracts the Load-Stone, when it can move freely, may be thus fhewn : For if you put a Load-Stone into a hollow Piece of Cork, and fet it floating upon the Surface of a Bafon of Water, and bring a Piece of Iron at a convenient Distance to it, the Piece of Cork, together with the Stone, will accede to the Iron.

That Property of the Load-Stone which is always to refpect the Poles of the World, may be fhewn by the following Experiment: For having put a Load-Stone into a hollow Piece of Cork, and fet them both a floating upon the Surface of (till Water (there being no Iron, or other Obflacle near), the Load-Stone will always so difpofe itfelf, that one certain Point thereof will regard the North, and the opposite Point the South.

But you mud note, that the Load-Stone doth not exactly refpect the North, it having at different Times, and in different Places of the Earth's Superficies, different Declinations, or Variations therefrom, and at this time at Pan's, varies i2Deg. i5Min. Westward : so that the South Pole of the Load-Stone varies above 12 Degrees from that of the World, and it's Oppofite so likewise. The Poles of a Load-Stone, are those two Places thereof, that refpect the two Ma^netick Poles of the World ; and the principal Axis, is a right Line drawn from one Pole to°the other, about which, the greatefl Force of the Load-Stone manifests itfelf, "nd at the two Poles is greatefl. Spherical Load-Stones have also ficted Equators, and Me- ridians, i3c. from whence they are called Magnetick Spheres.

Now in order to find the Poles of a Load-Stone, you must cut a Hole in a Card of the Figure of the Stone, in which the Stone must be put, so that it's principal Axis may be found in the Plane of the Card. This being done, Iron or Steel Filings must be ftrewed upon it : after which ftrike the Card foftly with a little Stick, so that by putting the Filings in Motion, the Magnetick Matter may let them take a Circuit conformable to the way which that Matter takes in moving from a North Pore to another South one, and you will perceive the Filings ranged in the Figure of several Semi-Circumferences, whole opposite Ends ar^. ^e Poles of the Load-Stone.

The Poles of a Load-Stone may otherwise be found, in plunging it into Iron or Steel Fi- lings, or into very little Bits of Steel Wire ; for then they will make different Configurations round the Stone, some of them lying flat on it, others half t)ent •, and finally, others quite upright on it : and those Places of the Stone where the little Bits of Steel are perpendicular to it, are the Poles ; and where they lie along, is the Equator.

Havino- thus found the Poles of a Load-Stone ; which is the North or South Pole, may be known in laying the Stone in a hollow Piece. of Cork, fwimming on Water, or by fufpending it with a Thread, so that it's Axis be parallel to the Horizon ; for then that Pole of the Stone turning towards the North Pole of the World, will be the South Pole of the Stone, and the opposite Point the North Pole.

The Poles of a Load-Stone may likewise be found by means of a Compass; for bringing a touched Needle to the Stone, the End that was touched, will immediately turn towarc that Pole of the Stone agreeing therewith, and the other End of the Neeale will likewise turn to- wards the other Pole of the Stone.

The Poles of the Stone being found, the next thing will be to cut, and give it a regular Figure, in taking away the Superfluities either with a Saw, and Powder of Emery, or else with a Knife- Grinder's Grind-ftone, preferving it's Axis as long as poffible, and giving a like Figure to it's Poles.

Now to make a great many Experiments, it is neceffary to give to a Load-Stone the most regular Figure poflible, which is determined by the Likenefs it hath to that of the irregular Mafs it is compofed of: the Cube, the Parallelepipedon, the Oval, and the Round are to be preferred, on account of having the principal Axis of the Stone as long as may be. If a Load-Stone is to be made in Form of a Sphere, it will not be difficult to find it's Poles and Axis ; you need only figure it with Powder of Emery in a round Iron Concave, and after- wards finifh it with find Sand, in a round Brass Concave.

A Load-Stone in Figure of a Sphere, is very fit for many Experiments, and it's Poles may be found in manner aforsaid : but it is neceffary, before any pains be taken in cutting and figuring of a Load-Stone, to be affured of it's Goodnefs, in observing whether it strongly at- tracts Filings, or little Bits of Steel ; and whether there be not other Matter pafiing thro' it's Pores, which hinders the Magnetical Matter from circulating and passing from one Pole to the other.

The Goodnefs of a Load-Stone confifb in two effential Things j which are, first, That it be homogeneous, having a great Number of Pores filled with Magnetick Matter, which paf- fing thro' them form about the Stone, as it were, a very extenfive Whirlwind. In the second place, it's Figure very much contributes to it's Force (as we have already said), for it is cer- tain, that of all Load-Stones of a like Goodnefs, that which hath the beft Poles, it's Axis longeft, and whose Poles meet exactly in the Extremes, will be most vigorous.

Two Load-Stones placed in two hollow Pieces of Cork, which are both fet floating upon the Surface of the Water, having their Poles of contrary Denominations tur :ed to each other, will accede to each other •, but if the Poles of the fame Denomination be turned towards each other, then the Load-Stones will mutually recede from one another.

If a Load-Stone be cut into two Pieces, parallel to it's Axis, the Sides of the Pieces that were together before theDivision, will mutually recede from each other.

But if a Load-Stone be cut into two Pieces, according to it's Equator, the Sides of the Pieces that were together before they were cut, will be found to have Poles of a contrary De- nomination, and will accede to each other.

A strong Load-Stone touching a weak one, will attract it with it's Pole of the fame Deno- mination, &c.

The Defcription of the Armour ; or Capping for Load-ftones.

Fig. 6. The Armour for a Load-ftone, cut into the Form of a right-angled Parallelepipedon, is compofed of two square Pieces of very fmooth Iron or Steel ; but tempered Steel is better than Iron, because it's Pores are clofer, and there are a greater Number of them. Care must be taken, that the Armour well cncompafles, and exactly touches the Poles of the Load-ftone, and that the Armour is in Thicknefs proportionable to the Goodnefs of the Stone : for if strong Armour be put upon a weak Stone, it will produce no Effect, because the magnetick Matter will not have force enough to pass thro' it-, and, on the contrary, if the Armour of a strong Stone be too thin, it will not contain all the magnetick Matter it ought, and confe- quently the Stone will not produce so great an Effect, as when the Armour is thicker.

Now, to fit the Armour exactly, you must file it thinner by Degrees •, and when you find the Effect of the Stone to be augmented as much as poflible, the Armour will be in it's juft Proportion, and will have it's convenient Thicknefs ; after which it must be fmoothed within Side, and polifhed without.

The Heads of the Armour (whereon is writ North and South) must be thicker than the other Parts, and cover about 4 of the Length of the Axis.

The Breadth and Length of the Armour, beft fitting a Stone, may also be found by filing it by little and little ; bur, above all, Care must be taken that the two Heads are equal in Thicknefs, and that their Eafes very exactly meet in the fame Plane. Number 5 is a Brass or Silver Girdle fitted about the Stone, ferving to faften and hold the Armour, by means of two Screws 1, 1 ; and at 6 and 6 are two Screws lastening a round Brass Plate, carrying the Pen- dant 4, and it's Ring, to the Top of the Armour, fig. 7. The Armour of a fpherical Load-ftone is compofed of two Steel Shells, faftened to the

Piece 8 by two Joints 6, 6 ; of a Girdle 5, 5 •, of a Pendant and Ring 4 •, and of a Piece (or Porte-Poid) 2, to hold the Hook 3 Great Care must be taken that the Shells very exactly join the Superficies of the Stone, and that they well encompass the Poles of the Stone, and cover the greateft part of the Convexity thereof. The convenient Breadth and Thicknefs of this Armour may be found by Trials, as before- mentioned.

It is very wonderful, that two little Pieces of Steel, compofing the Armour of a Load-ftone, fhould give it such a Property, that a good Stone, alter it is armed, will attract above 1 50 times more than before it was armed.

There are indifferent good Stones, which, unarmed, weigh about three Ounces, and will life up but half an Ounce of Iron •, but being armed, will lift up more than seven Pounds.

To preferve a Load-ftone, you must keep it in a dry Place among little Bits of Steel-Wire ; for Filings, which are always full of Duft, make it rufty.

We fometimes fufpend Load-ftones, so that having the liberty to move, they may conform themfelves to the Poles of the World ; and if, in this Situation, the Piece carrying the Hook, or Porte-Poid, be put on, and the Weight the Stone commonly carries be hung on, and from time to time there be hung to it some small Weight more, you will find that, when the Stone has continued fufpended some Days, that it will lift up a much greater Weight than it did be- fore it was hung up.

Several common Experiments made with the Load-Jlone.

The first and usefulleft Experiment made with the Load-ftone, is that of touching the Nee- dles of Sea-CompafTes •, for rightly doing of which, you must draw the Needle foftly over one of the Poles of the Load-ftone, from it's Middle to it's End, and then it will receive it's Virtue. But, Note, that that End of the Needle, which hath been touched with one of the Poles of a Load-ftone, will turn towards the opposite Part of the World, to that which that Pole regards ; therefore it the End of a Needle is to turn towards the North, it must be touched with that Pole of the Stone refpecting the South. Note, The longer Needles are, the less will they vibrate.

This admirable Direction of the Load-ftone and Touched Needle hath not been known in Europe much above two hundred Years, by means of which, Navigation hath been almost in- finitely advanced. But there is one Inconveniency, which is, that a Touched Needle doth not exactly refpect the Poles of the World, but declines or varies therefrom towards the East or West, at different Times, and in different Places, varioufly. In the Year 1610, it varied at Paris 8 Degrees North-Easterly ; in 1658, it had no Variation j and in the Year 1716, it varied about i2Deg. ^Min. Westward.

Moreover, the Needle hath also an Inclination as well as a Declination ; that is, the Nee- dle of a Sea-Compass being in Equilibrio upon it's Pivot, will, when touched, lofe that Equi- librium, and the End that turns North, on this side the Equator, will drip or incline towards the Earth, as if it was heavier on that Side ; for which reason the North Side of a Needle must be made lighter, before the Needle be touched, than the South Side, and going towards the Poles, this Inclination grows greater ; but in going towards the Equator, it grows Itffer : so that under the Equator, the Inclination will be nothing ; and in palling the Line, the other End of the Needle, refpecting the South, will begin to incline ; so that Pilots are obliged to ftick as much Wax to the End of the Needle, as will make it in Equilibrio. Ncte,

The greater Force that Load-ftones, which touch Needles, have, the more will the Needles

There are Needles purpofely made to obferve this Inclination, which at Paris is about 70 De°rees.

It a long thin Piece of Steel be drawn over one of the Poles of an armed Load-done (in the fame manner as was said before of the Needles), this Piece of Steel will in an inftant acquire the magnetick Virtue, and will not lofe it but by degrees after several Months, unlefs it be put in the Fire. Note, A Piece of Steel, touched by a good Stone, will lift up 14 Ounces.

The two Ends of a Steel Blade thus touched will become North and South Poles ; that End whose Contact ends on the South Pole of the Stone, being the North, and the other the South Pole : for if this Piece of Steel be made light enough to fwim, one End thereof will turn to the North, and the other to the South.

A«uin ; that End of the Steel Blade where the Contact ended, will attract much stronger than 'the other End •, and if the said Blade be once drawn over the Stone the contrary way, it will quite lofe it's Virtue, and attract no more. Understand the fame of the Needle of a Com- pass, the Blade of a Knife, &c. two touched Steel Blades will avoid each other, and approach like two Load-ftones.

A Piece of Steel, in a hollow Piece of Cork fwimming on the Water, may be any ways moved, by bringing the Pole of a Load-ftone towards it, or another touched Piece of Steel.

A fine Sewing-Needle, fufpended by a Thread, will fliew what is meant by Sympathy and Antipathy ; for this Needle will be repelled by one Pole of a Load-ftone, and attracted by the other.

A Needle may be kept upright, without it's touching a Load-ftone ; so that there may be put between it and the Stone, a Piece of Silver, or other Matter, provided it be not Iron.

If, about a Load-ftone, fufpended by a String, be circularly placed fevetal little touched Needles of a Compass, upon their Pivots, and the Load-ftone be moved any how, you will likewise fee all the Needles move in a pleafant manner j and when the Stone eeafes moving* the Needles will also ceafe.

What we have already fpoken about ftrewihg of Filings about a Load-ftone, may be said also of ftrewing them about a Piece of touched Steel.

If Filings be ftrewed upon a Piece of Paftcboard, and a Load-ftone be moved under it, thd Filings will erect themfelves, and then lie along on that Side from whence the Stone earner

If, inftead of Filings, you lay upon a Piece of Pafteboard several Bits of the Ends of bro- ken Needles •, by bringing one Pole of a Load-ftone towards them, they will erect themfelves upon one of their Ends j and by bringing the other Pole, they will fall, and rife upon their other Ends.

It is eafy to feparate a black Powder mixed with white Sand, and propofing it to a Perfon* not knowing the Secret, he will think it impoffible ; for if Iron Filings be mixed with fine Sand, they may be feparated from it by a Load-ftone, or Piece of touched Steel: for either of them being p..t into the Mixture, at divers times, you may get all the Filings from among the Sand.

A Load-ftone will lift up a Whirlegig in Motion, whose Axis is Steel ; and if it be fome- thing heavy, it will turn a longer Time in the Air than upon a Table, where the Friction foon ftops it's Motion ; and if the Stone be a good one, this Whirlegig may lift up another, and both of them will turn contrary 'Ways. Another diverting Experiment may yet be made, by putting little Steel Fifties, or Swans, into a flat Bafon of Water ; for by moving a good Load-ftone under the Bafon, you will fee them prettily fwimming about j and moving the Stone different ways, they will likewise have different Motions ; if the Stone be turned round, the Fifties will also turn round ; if the Pole of the Stone be turned towards them, they will plunge themfelves, as it were, to join themfelves to the Stone. You may likewise put little Steel Soldiers into the Bafon, which may be made to approach to, or recede from, each other in form of a Battel ; and by bringing the Equator of the Stone towards them, they will fall down.

It is pleafant enough to fee a Sewing-Needle threaded, or a little Arrow, fattened by a Hair to the Arc of a Cupid*s Bow, remain fufpended in the Air eight or ten Lines distant from a good Load-ftone.

There are several other Experiments made with the Load-ftone, but mentioning thefn here would take up too much time*

The ConftriitTion of an Artificial Magnet.

This Instrument, invented by Mr Joblot, is compofed of several very ftrait Steel Blades Fig.*, laid upon one another ; and to make it paflably good, there ought to be at least 20 of them (according to the force of the Magnet to be made), each about 10 Inches long, 1 Inch broad, and half a Line in Thicknefs. It is ufelefs to make them thicker* because the magnetick Vir- tue will not penetrate further into the Steel Blades.

Now these Blades being first touched with a good Stone* are afterwards laid one upon ano- ther, having their Poles, of the fame Denomination, turned the fame way, forming a Paral- Wepipedon ; then they are prelTed together with four Brass Stirrups, and as many little Wed- g e5 3&gt; 3&gt; 3&gt; 3&gt; °f tne ^ ame Metal, and encompafied with Iron Armour of a proper Length, Breadth, and Thicknefs. This Armour is held by a Brass Girdle, and fattened with the Screws 2, 2. At the Top is placed a Brass Plate, to which h fattened the Pendant 4, and it's Ring •, and at the Bottom is the Port-Poids 5. But, Note, That the Base of the Porte-Poids must make the perfected Contact poftible with the Heads a, b, of the Armour. When arti- ficial Magnets are well made, and touched with good Stonc-s, they will have as much Virtue in them as good natural ones, and may be used for the fame Experiments.

The Construction df the Spring Steel-yard.

f'g 9. This Machine, which is portable, and ferves to weigh any thing from one Pound to about

forty, is compofed of a Brass Tube or Pipe, open at the Ends, about 4 or 5 Inches long, and 7 or 8 Lines broad, one End whereof is marked 3 ; the Rest being open for fhewing the Infide, which is a Spring (2) of tempered Steel-Wire, made like a Worm. Number 6. is a little Feril fcrewed upon the Top of the square Brass Rod 1, which the Spring croffes. Up- on this Rod are the Divisions of Pounds, and Parts of a Pound, which are made in fucceflively hanging on the Hook (4.) r, 2, 3, tec. Pounds : for the Spring being fattened by a Screw to the Bottom of the square Rod, the greater the Weight is, that is hung on the Hook, the more will the Spring be contracted •, and confequently a greater part of the Rod will come out of the Tube, thro' the square Hole C : therefore if you have a mind to mark the Division for any Number of Pounds upon the Rod, suppose 10, hang 10 Pounds upon the Hook, and where the Edge of the square Hole C, at the Top of the Tube, cuts the Rod, make a Mark upon the Rod for 10 Pounds, and so for any pther.

The Use of this Instrument is very eafy ; for having fcrewed the Feril 6 on the Top of the Rod, if you hold the Instrument in your Hand by the Hook 5, and hang any thing to be weighed upon the Hook 4 ; then where the Edge C of the square Hole cuts the Rod, will be the Weight of the thing required.

The chief Goodnefs of this Instrument confifts in having a well- tempered Spring ; so that it may fold according to the Force of the Weight it is to carry, and alio in having a Bignefa proportionable.

The Conjlruffion of the Beam Steelyard.

frig, to, This Instrument, which is a kind of Steel-yard, or Balance of Mr Cajini's Invention,

confifts of a Rod fufpended by a Beam, in it's Point of Equilibrium 5, which divides the said Rod into two Arms (like the two Arms of a common Balance) each of which are lengthwife divided into equal Parts, beginning from the Point of Sufpenfion or Equilibrium.

The Use of this Balance is to find both the Weight and Price of Goods at the fame time. If you use it for weighing any thing, the Counter-Weight 4 of one Pound, or one Ounce, must be hung to one of the Arms (according as Goods are to be weighed by Pounds or Ounces), so that it may Aide along the Arm, like as in Roman Balances ; and on the other Arm must be hung on a filken Line, for fuftaining things to be weighed. Then to weigh any thing, you must place the filken Line, to which the thing is hung, upon the first Divi- fion of the Arm, nigheft the Point of Equilibrium ♦, and moving the Counter-weight upon the other Arm, 'till it makes an Equilibrium, the Point whereon it falls will fhow the Weight fought. M

To know the Weight of Goods, according to any Price ; for Example, at seven Pence an Ounce or Pound ; place the Line, fuftaining the Goods, upon the Division 7 of the Arm •, then placing the Line, carrying the Counter- weight upon the other Arm, so that it be in Equi- libria, and the Number of Divisions, from the Point of Sufpenfion to the Line fuftaining the Counter-weight, will give the Value of the Goods weighed.

But for Goods that cannot be weighed, unlefs in a Scale, take a Scale of a known Weight, and having hung it upon a Hook to the Arm, proceed as before, and fubftract the Weight of the Scale.

A Paris Pound is 16 Ounces, and is divided into 2 Marks, each of which is 8 Ounces ; an Ounce is fubdivided into 8 Drams, a Dram into 72 Grains, and a Grain, which is nighly the Weight of a Grain of Wheat, is the least Weight used.

A Quintal weighs 100 Pounds.

The Paris Pound compared with those of other Countries.

The Pound of Avignon, Lyons, Montpelier, and Thoulouje is 13 Ounces.

The Pound of Marfeilles and Rochelle is 19 Ounces.

The Pound of Rouen, Befanfon, Strafburgh, and Amjierdam is 16 Ounces, like that of Paris.

The Pound of Milan, Naples, and Venice, is 9 Ounces.

The Pound of Meffina and Genoa is 9 4 Ounces.

The Pound ok Florence, Leghorne, Pifa, SarragoJJa and Valence is 10 Ounces.

The Pound of Turin and Modena is 10 ' Ounces.

The Pound of London, Antwerp and Flanders is 14 Ounces.

The Pound of Bafil, Berne, Franckfort and Nuremburgh is ^Ounces and 14 Grains.

That ef Geneva is 17 Ounces.

Construction of an Instrument for raifing of Weights.

The Instrument of Fig. n. confifts of two Sheaves, each of which carries eight Pullies, Fig. u. hollowed in to receive a Rope, which is fattened at one End to the upper Sheave •, and after havin" put it round all the Pullies, the other End of it must be joined to the Power repre- fcnted°by the Hand. Four of the Pullies are carried upon one Axel-Tree, and four upon ano- ther as well in the upper Sheave as in the lower one. At the Top of the upper Sheave is a Kin" to hanw the Machine in a fixed Place, and at the Bottom of the other, there is another Ring to hang the Weights to.

The Use of this Machine is to lift up or draw great Burdens, by multiplying the Force of the Power, which augments, in the Ratio of Unity, to double the Number of the Pullies in the lower Sheave ; so that in this Instrument, where the lower Sheave carries eight Pullies, if the Weight (4) weighs 16 Pounds, the Power need be but a little above one Pound to make an Equilibrium •, I fay, a little above, because of the Friction of the Ropes and Axes. The Pullies of the upper Sheave do not at all contribute to the Augmentation of the Force, but only to facilitate the Motion in taking away the Friction of the Rope, because being as Lea- vers of the first kind, whose fixed Point is in the Middle, the Power will be equal to the Weight •, but the Pullies below are as Leavers of the second Kind, whose fixed Point is at one of the Ends : for their Diameter is, as it were, fixed at one End, and lifted up at the other -, by which each of the Pullies double their Force, since the way moved through by the Power, is double to that moved through by the Weight.

The Construction of the Wind-Cane.

This Instrument is about three Foot long, and twelve or fifteen Lines in Thicknefs. The Fig. 12. Tube 3 is made of Brass, very round, and well foldered, from 4 to 6 Lines in Diameter, flopped at one End a. At the Place 1 is likewise another larger Tube, so disposed about the former one, that there remains a Space 4, wherein the Air may be ciofely included. Thefe two Tubes ought to be joined together at one End by a circular Plate c r, exactly foldered to them both, for hindering the Air's getting out of the Space 4. The Piece 8 is a v alvc flop- ping a Hole, permitting the Air to pass from 2 towards 1, but not to return from 1 towards 2. There are, moreover, two Holes near the ftopped End of the Tube 3 ; thro' one of these Holes, which is marked 6, the Air would come out of the Space 4 into the Tube 3, if it was not hindered by a Spring- Valve opening outwardly. The other Hole is marked 5, thro' which there is a Communication with the outward Air, and the Air in the Cavity of the Tube 3 ; but yet fo, that the Air, inclofed in the Space 4, cannot come out thro' the Hole 5, it being hindered by a little fhort Tube foldered to the Tubes 1 and 3. Laftly, the Tube 2 reprefents the Body of a Syringe, by which as much Air as poflible may be intruded into the Space 4 ; after which having put a Bullet into the Cavity of the Tube 3, near the little Tube 5, the Cane will be charged. Now, to difcharge it, you must pufh up the Spring- Valve 6, by means of a little Pin exactly filling the Cavity of the little Tube 5 ; then the comprefied Air, in the Cavity 4, will dilate itfelf ; and pafling thro' the Hole 6, into the Ca- vity of the Tube 3, will pufh the Bullet out with a great force, even to it's penetrating thro' a Board of an ordinary Thicknefs.

Note, At Number 7 this Cane may be taken into two Pieces, by unferewing of it \ and the Handle 12 may be taken out, and inftead thereof the Head of a Cane put thereon.

The Conftruflion of the JEoliple.

This Instrument is made of hammered Copper, in form of a Ball, or hollow Pear, having pjg ,« a Neck foldered to it, and a very little Hole drilled at the End of this Neck.

The Air in the Ball is first rarefied, by bringing it to the Fire ; and afterwards plunging it into cold Water, will condenfe the Air in it, and the Water will pass thro' the little Hole into the Cavity of the Instrument.

Now having let about as much Water, as will fill \ of the iEolipile, get into it, if it be fet upon a good Fire, in the fame Situation as in the Figure, the Water, as it grows hot, will di- late itfelf by little and little, and throw up Vapours into the Space of Air contained between the Surface of the Water, and the little Hole at the End of the Neck, which, together with the Air, will very fwiftly crowd thro' the little Hole, and produce a Wind and violent Hiding, continuing 'till all the Water be evaporated, or the Heat extinguiftied. Note, This Wind has all the Properties of the natural Wind blowing upon the Surface of the Earth.

The Construction of four different Micro f copes. This is a Microfcope for viewing very minute Objects and Animals that are in Liquors. Fig. 14. it is compofed of two Plates of Brass, or other Metal, about 3 Inches long, and 8 Lines broad, fattened together, nigh the Ends, by two Screws, 2, 2, which likewise ferve to fix the Hates at inch a Diitance from each other, that a Wheel may turn which has fix round Holes, in every of which are fiat Pieces of Glass to put different Objects uoon, marked 3, 4, 5, &c. Next to the Eye there is a concave Piece of Brass 1, having a Hole 'in the Middle, in which is put a very imall Lens, or Ball of Glass. This Ball ought to be very convex, and well polifhed, in Order to diftinguifti minute Objects. The End of the Machine is filed in manner of a Handle to hold it.

The Use of this Instrument is very eafy ; if the Objects are tranfparent, as the Feet of a Flea, or of Flies, their Wings, the Mites in Cheefe, or other minute Animals •, as likewise Hairs of the Head, their Roots, &c. they are put upon the Glass Plates on the Wheel, and are held faff, with a little Gum-water: and to fee the little Animals in ftale Urine, Vinegar, in Water where there has been infused Pepper, Coriander, Straw, Hay, or almost any kind of Herbs •, little Drops thereof must be taken up with the End of a little Glass Pipe, and laid upon the aforsaid Glasses: then the Wheel must be turned and raifed, or depRested by means of the Screws 2, 2, and a Spring between the Plates, which ferves to keep the Wheel in any Situation required, in such manner that a little Drop may be exactly under the Lens. Things being thus ordered, take the Microfcope in your Hand, and having placed your Eye to the Concave i, over the Lens, look fleadily at the Drop in broad Day-light, or at Night by the Light of a Wax -Candle; at the fame time turn the Screw at the End by little and little, to brino- the Drop nigher, or make it further from the Lens, until the Point be found where the Object will be tranfparent, or the Animals fwimming in the Drop of Liquor, appear very large and diftinct.

Conjlrutlion of another Microfcope.

Fig. 15. This Microfcope is compofed of a Brass Plate about three Inches high, and f an Inch broad,

cut in Form of a Parallelogram, at the Bottom of which there is a Handle to hold it. The Place marked 1, is a little Groove drilled thro' the Middle, in the Hole of which is placed a Lens fattened in a little Frame ; there may be put into it Lenses of diverfe Foci, according to the different Objects to be observed. Note, That the Focus of a Glass, is it's Distance from the Object, and that Lenses are used in these Microfcopes, whose Foci are from half a Line to four Lines.

On the Backfide of the aforsaid Plate (at the Place 2.)* is fixed a little square Branch of Brass or Steel, carrying another Plate that Aides upon it by means of a little Box, a Spring, and a Screw, turned by help of a Wheel, cut into Teeth, which ferves to bring the said Plate nigher to, or more distant from that which carries the Lens. Towards the Top of the second Plate ; which has a Hole drilled in it, is also a Groove, in which is placed little Pieces of plain Glass, and round Concaves to put Liquors on. There may be different GlafiTes put in that Groove for viewing different Objects. Laftly, Obferve that all the Objects anfwer to the Center of the Lens, and that there must be adjufted on the other Side of the Plate a little Tube (marked 3.) of Brass, about an Inch Diameter, and one or two long, whose Center muff, very exactly anfwer to the Center of the Lenses. It has been found that with such a Tube, these Microfcopes will have much more effect upon tranfparent Objects, than without it. The Circulation of the Blood may pretty diftinctly be observed in the Tails of little Fifties by this Microfcope, which is, in my Opinion, the most commodious of any.

The Use of this Instrument is very eafy ; for having placed the Object over-against the Center of the Lens, move it backwards and forwards by means of the Screw, 'till it be feen very diftinctly.

Conjlrutlion of afingle Glass Microfcope.

Fig. 16. The little Instrument of Fig. 16. is a Microfcope commodious enough, compofed of a

Branch of Brass, or other Metal, having a Motion towards the Top, for putting it into the Situation a$per Fig. The Piece, at the End, carries a very convex Lens, magnifying the Object very much : this Branch is fcrewed into a little Box 5, bored through the Bottom. The Piece 4, is two Springs faftened to one another in the Middle with a Rivet, to give it a Mo- tion defired. The Branch which carries the Lens, is put through one of the Springs ; and through the other there is put a little Branch, carrying at one End the Piece 2, which is white on one Side, and black on the other, for different Objects. The other End 3, is a little kind of Pincer, which opens by prefllng two little Buttons ; it ferves to hold little Ani- mals, or other Bodies. The Foot 5, is about 1 4. Inch in Diameter, the Branch fcrews into it, in order to take to pieces the Instrument.

The Use of it is very eafy, for the Objects being placed upon the little round Piece, or at the End of the Pincer, you must bring the Lens towards them, by Aiding the Spring along the Branch, 'till the Objects be feen very diftinct.

There may likewise be difcovered with this Microfcope, the Animals which are in Liquors, by putting a fiat Glass in the Place of the little round Piece 2, which unferews.

Conflruclion of a Three -Glass Microfcope.

Fig. 17. This Instrument is compofed of three Glasses, viz. the Eye Glass 3, the Middle Glass 4,

and the Object Lens 5. There is a Cover fcrewed on at the Top to preferve the Eye Glass from Duft : these three Glasses are fet in wooden Circles, and fcrewed into their Places, for eafier taking them out to cleanfe. The Eye Glass, and the Middle one, are placed at the Ends of a Tube of Parchment, exactly entering into the outward Tube, in order to lengthen the Microfcope, and place it at it's exact Point, according to a Line drawn round about the

•iorefaid Tube. To have this Instrument of a reasonable Bigncfs, the focal Distance of the Eye^Giafs ought to be about 20 Lines, that of the middle Glass about 3 Inches, and placed about a Inches 2 Lines distant from one another.

The Object Lens is placed at the End of a wooden Tail-piece, glued to the End of the outward Tube, and is enclofed in a little Box, bored through the Bottom, which unferews in order to change the Object Lenses, and put in others of different focal Distances, which are commonly 2, 3, 4, and 5 Lines in Diameter, and are more or less convex. The Goodnefs of these Glasses confifts in having the concave Brass Bafons they are ground in, turned in a juft. Proportion to the Glasses to be worked •, as also in the Motion of the Hand, and the Good- nefs of the Matter used to conftruct them, and above all in well polifhing them. Brown Free- fone is first used to fafhion them in the Bafon, then fine Sand to fmooth them, and Tripoli to polifh them. I mall fay no more of the Conftruction of these Glasses, M. Cherubin hav- ing fufliciently fpoken thereof.

°Tht Foot 1, which ought to be pretty heavy to keep the Mifcrofcope from falling, is made of Brass 4 or 5 Inches in Diameter, having a Cavity in the Middle, wherein is put a little Piece, white on one Side, and black on the other: black Objects are placed upon the white Side, and white Objects upon the black Side!

The round Brass Branch is fattened at the Edge of the Foot, upon which the Microfcope may Hide up or down, and turn round by means of the Support or double Square 2 : there is a Circle, or Ring, strongly fattened to the Support, and which very exactly encompasses the outward Tube. There is also a Steel Spring which bears against the Branch, and keeps the Inttrument in a required Situation.

Number 6, is a little Brass Frame, having in it a Piece of flat Glass to lay tranfparent Objects upon. This Frame may Aide Up and down the Branch underneath the Microfcope, and is fupported by a double Square.

Laftly, Number 7 is a convex Glass converging the Rays of Light, coming from a Candle under it •, and throwing them strongly under the tranfparent Object on the Glass, makes it be feen more diftinctly. The aforsaid Glass is fet in a Brass Circle, and rifes, falls, and turns by means of a little Arm carrying it, as the Figure fhews.

U S E of the aforsaid Microfcope.

To use this Instrument, for Example, to obferve the Circulation of the Blood in some Ani* mal 5 a live Fifh muff ' e placed upon the Glass 6, so that one part of the Fins of the Tail be exactly opposite to the Object Glass, and over the Ray of the Convex-Glass in broad Daylight, or the Spot of the Candle, in the Night ; then place the Microfcope exactly to such a Point, and you will fee the Blood rife, defcend, or circulate.

Number 9, is a little Piece of Lead hollowed, to keep the Fifh from any how ftirring to hinder the Experiment.

Liquors may also by this Microfcope be very well examined ; for if you put a little Drop of Vinegar upon the Glass juft over the bright Spot-, the little Animals in it will very diftinctly be observed. The fame may be observed of Water in which Pepper or Barley has been in- fused, &c. as also the Eels and other little Animals observed in ftanding Water.

A Drop of Blood may be observed by putting it hot over the Speck of the Candle, upon the Glass •, after which it's Serofity, and little Globules of a reddifti Colour, may be difcovered therein.

The beft way to get a Drop of Blood is to tie a Thread about one's Thumb, and then prick it with a Needle.

The beft way to put Liquors upon the Glass, is by taking a Drop of them up with the small End of a little Glass Tube ; and then blowing foftly at the other End, will make the Li* quor defcend and drop upon the Glass.

To get a great Number of little Eels in a small Quantity of Liquor •, the Liquor must be put into a very narrow-necked Bottle, and always kept full ; for by this means, the Animals coming to the Top to get Air, may be fucked into a little Tube in greater Numbers, than if the Neck of the Bottle was wider.

The Eyes of Flies, Ants, Lice, Fleas, and Mites, are put in the Middle of the Foot of the Microfcope, as also Sand, Salt, &c. to examine their Colours and Qualities ; always ob- ferving to lay black Objeds upon the white, and white Objects upon the black Side.

I suppose here that the Microfcope Glasses are well worked, and placed in their Foci. Note also, that the fhorter the Focus of an Object Glass is, the greater will the Object ap- pear, but not altogether so diftinct.
