
Taken from the Aftronomical Tables of M. de la Hire, and the Obfervations of the Academy of Sciences*

E Quadrants used by Astronomers for Celeftial Obfervations, arc

fually three Feet, or three Feet and a half (of Paris) Radius, that fo

they may be eafily managed and carried from Place to Place. Their

Limbs are divided into Degrees and Minutes, that so Obfervations made

with them may be very exact.

This Instrument is compofed of several pretty thick Iron or Brass Rulers, whose Breadths ought to be parallel to it's PJane. There are moreover other Iron or Brass Rulers, so adjufted and joined behind the former ones, that their Breadths are perpendicular to the Plane of the Quadrant. Thefe Rulers are joined together by Screws, by means of which the whole Conjunction of the Instrument is made, which ought to be very ftrait every way, firm, and pretty weighty. The Limb is likewise ftrengthened with a curved Brass, or Iron Ruler. There is a thick strong circular Blade placed in the Center, ferving for the Uses hereafter mentioned ; which circular Blade and the Limb must be railed fomething higher than the Plane of the Instrument, both of which must be covered with well-polifhed thin Pieces of Brass. But you must take great care that the Surfaces of these Pieces of Brass be both in the fame Plane.

The aforsaid circular Iron Blade in the Center must have a round Hole in the Middle thereof, about '- of an Inch in Diameter, in which is placed a well-turned Brass Cylinder, raifed fomething above the central thin Piece of Brass.

This Cylinder, which is reprefented in Figure 2, hath the Point of a very fine Needle ad- jufted in the Center of it's Base, which is fupported in going into a little Hole in the Center of the Base, and by lying along a femi-circular Cavity, and is kept therein by means of a little Spring preffing against it ; so that when the Needle is taken away, and we have a Mind to put it there again, it may exactly be placed in the little Hole in the Center of the laid Cy- linder. This little Hole ought to be no bigger than a Hair, but it must be fomething deep, that so the Point of the Needle may go far enough into it, that at the making of the Qua- drant it may not come out. At the Point of this Needle is hung a Hair, by means of a Ring made with the fame Hair big enough, for fear left the Knot of the Ring fliould touch the central Plate, and the Motion of the Hair be difturbed. Note, The Base of the cen- tral Cylinder A, reprefented in this Figure, must be such, that the Ring of the Hair, hung on the Point of the Needle, may not touch the said Base otherwise than in it's Center, when there is a Plummet hung to the End of the Hair, of about half an Ounce in weight.

The Conftruction of this central Cylinder ought to be such, that it may be taken away and preferved, and another placed inftead thereof, of the fame Thicknefs therewith, but fomething longer; which coming out beyond the central Blade, fuftains the Ruler of the In- ftrument, in luch manner as we are going to explain.

There is moreover, at the central Brass Blade, which covers the Iron one, a plane Rino- F 'g- 3- A, turning about the Center, but not touching the central Cylinder •, in such manner, that

the outward Surface thereof is even with the Surface of the laid Brass Blade. Upon this Ring is fattened, with two Screws, a flat Tube M, which moves freely along with the Hair and Plummet, which it covers, and so preferves it from the Wind when the Instrument is using.

This Tube carries a Glass, placed against the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant, in order to fee what Point of Division the Hair falls upon. Behind, and nigh to, the Center of Gravity of the Quadrant, is firmly fixed, with three or four Screws, to the Rulers of the Instrument, the Iron Cylinder I, whose Length is 8 Inches, and Diameter of it's Base two Inches. This Cylinder being perpendicular to the Plane of the Quadrant, may be called it's Axis.

Now because the principal Use of this Instrument is for taking the Altitudes of the Sun or Stars, it must be so ordered, that it's Plane may be eafily placed in a vertical Situation ; f'g- 4. therefore an Iron Ruler M N must be prepared, whole Thicknefs is three Lines, Length

eight Inches, and Breadth one Inch, or thereabouts. On one Side of this Ruler are ad- jufted two Iron Rings Z Z, open a-top with Ears, each of which has a Screw to draw the Ears clofer together, which have a Spring. The Bignefs of these Rings is nearly equal to the Thicknefs of the Cylinder I, or Axis of the Quadrant, which being put thro' them, is made faft with the Screws ; so that the Axis and Quadrant, which it is fixed to, may remain firm in any Pofition the Quadrant is put into.

On the other Side of the said Ruler M N is foldered an Iron Cylinder O, of such a Length and Breadth, as to go into the Tube Q^, of which we are going to fpeak.

Now when the Instrument is to be placed fo, that it's Plane may be horizontal, for using an Index or moveable Arm to take the Distances of Stars or Places upon Earth, the Cylinder I. must be put into the Tube Q^, by which means the Quadrant may be eafily turned to what part you pleafe. Fig. 5. The Foot, or Support of the whole Instrument, is commonly compofed of an Iron Tube

Qj whose upper Part is capable of containing the Cylinder O, and it's lower Part goes thro' the Middle of an Iron Crofs, and is fattened in it by four Iron Arms, at the four Ends of which Crofs are four great Screws, to raife or lower the Quadrant, and put it in a convenient Situation. But Monfieur de la Hire propofes a Triangular Support in his Tables, which is compofed of an Iron or Brass Tube, big enough to contain the Cylinder O, fattened with two Screws to three Iron Rulers R S, bent towards their Tops, and of a pretty good Thicknefs, which are adjufted and well fixed to a Tee or double Square T X Y. The Screw V, in the Middle of the Tube Qj is for fixing the Cylinder O, according to Ne- ceflity.

Now when the Meridian Altitudes of Stars are to be observed, the Ruler T Y ought to be placed in the Meridian Line, and of the three Screws T X Y, which fuftain the Weight of the whole Instrument; that which is in X ferves to lower the Plane of the Instrument, 'till it anfwers to the Plane of the Meridian, according as the Obferver would have it; and the other two are for raifing or lowering the Instrument by little and little, until the Plumb- Line falls upon the requifite Altitude. But it often happens in turning the Screws that are in T and Y, that the Quadrant difplaces'itfelf from it's true Poficion ; whence, if the Defect be some Minutes, this may be remedied, by hanging a moveable Weight to the Back- side of. the Branches of the Instrument, which may alter the Center of Gravity, as likewise change the Inclination of the Quadrant; for the Rulers compofing the Foot are not entirely free trom Elasticity. Now the nigher to the Foot the Place of Sufpenfion of the Weight is, the less Force will it have to fhake the Instrument. Note, The Fleight of the Foot is com- monly four Feet and a half, or thereabouts, and the fame Use is equally made of the four Branch Support.

Thie Divisions on the Limb of this Quadrant ought to be made with great Care, that fo Obfervations may thereby be exactly taken. Each Degree is divided into 60 Minutes, by Fig. 6. means of n concentrick Circles, and 6 Diagonal right Lines, as in Figure 6 may be feen.

Thefe Diagonal Distances are equal between themfelves, but those of the Concentrick Cir- cles are unequal ; yet this Inequality is not fenfible, if the Radius of the Quadrant be three Feet, and the Distance between the two outmost concentrick Circles be one Inch ; for if the Arc A E, of the outmost Circle be 10 Minutes, and there are drawn, from the Center C of the Quadrant, the Radii A DC, EBC, meeting the inner concentrick Circle in the Points D, B, the Arc D B will be likewise 10 Minutes. Note, Figure 6 is supposed to be put up- on the Limb of the Instrument, Figure 1.

But if the Right-lined Diagonals A B, D E, are drawn interfecting each other in the Point F ; I lay F is the middle Point or Division thro' which the middle Circle ought to pass : For the Arcs A E, B D, which may be taken for firait Lines, are to each other, as A F is to FB : for it is evident, that C A is to C B, as the Divisions of the Base AB of the Right- lined Triangle ACB; bur since C A is to C B as A E is to D B, therefore A E is toDB, as the Divisions of the Base A B made by a Radius, bifccting the Angle A C B : and confe- quently the Point F, before found in the Right-lined Diagonal AB, will be the middle Point of the Divisions.

Now let us suppose, that A C be to C B, as 36 Inches is to 35 ; then A B is to A F, as 71 is to 36. Therefore if the Breadth of one Inch, or 12 Lines, which is the supposed Mea- fure of A B, be divided into 71 equal Parts, the Part AF will be 36 of them, which will be greater by half, or about -j- 1 . of a Line, than half of A B, which is but 35 4. This Diffe- rence is of no confequence, and may, without any fenfible Error, be neglected in the Division of the Middle ; and much more in the other Divisions, where it is less.

Inftead of making Right-Jined Liagonals, we may make them Portions of Circles palling thro' the Center of the Inftrumcnt, and the first and last Point of the fame Diagonal-, then we need but divide the firll Circular Portion into ten equal Parts, and the exact Points will be had thro' which the eleven Concentrick Circles must pais.

The Radius of this firll: Portion may be eafily found ; and then if a thin Ruler be bent into the Curvature thereof, all the other Portions may be drawn by means of it, as we have already mentioned in fpeaking of the Divisions of Quadrants, Semi-Circles, &c.

Note, It will be proper to leave, at the Bottom of the Limb, the Points that were made for drawing every 10th A'linute ; for these will be a means to take the Correfpondent Alti- tudes of the Sun, Morning and Evening, much exacter than can be done by the Diagonals, because of the Eftimation thereby avoided. Moreover, there may be some fault in the Dia- gonals which there cannot be in the Points, if care be taken in making them : for it is diffi- cult enough to draw the Diagonals exactly thro' those Points they fhould pass. For which reason, if a Micrometer be joined to the fixed Telescope of the Instrument, the Diagonals need not be used, and the aforsaid Points will be fufficient ; since the Micrometer will give, by means of a moveable Hair, the Interval between the neaRest of one of the aforsaid Points, at every 10th Minute, and the Plummet. And this is done by raifing or lowering the moveable Hair above or below the horizontal Hair, 10 Minutes of a Degree, or a little more. The Chevalier de Louville, of the Academy of Sciences, hath fatisfactorily used a Quadrant for his Obfervations, conftructed in this Manner.

We now come to fpeak of the Telcfcopes, and the Manner of finding the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant.

Thefe Telescopes have each two Glaffcs, one of which is the Object-Glass, placed towardsthe vifible Object, and near to the Center of the Quadrant ; and the other is the Eye-Glass,placed at the other End or the Telescope, next to the Eye of the Obferver.

The Object-Glass is firmly fattened in an Iron Frame, which is fixed with Screws about the Center of the Instrument. Near the Eye-Glass are placed two fine Hairs, croffing each other at Right An-ies, in an iron Frame, to which they are fattened with Wax upon a little piece of Brass ; so that the one is perpendicular to the Plane of the Instrument, and the other parallel thereto.

The Eye-Glass must be placed in a Tube, that so it may be moved backwards or forwards, according to different Sights •, and the Distance between the Object-Glass and Crofs-Hairs, must be the said Glass's Focal Length ; that is, the Crofs-Hairs must be placed in the Focus of the Object-Glass. Thefe Telescopes must be so disposed, that the Surfaces of the Lenses (as Planes) and the Planes in which are the Crofs-Hairs, be parallel to each other, and per- pendicular to Right Lines drawn thro' the Centers of the Lenses, and the Points wherein the Flairs crofs each other. Thefe Telescopes are adjufted behind the Quadrant, that so the divided Brass- Limb may not be incumbered by them.

Between the Frames fuftaining the Glasses, is a Brass or Iron Tube, compofed of two Parts, one of which is inchafed in the other, that so they may eafily be taken from between the Frames, by means of Ferrels keeping them together.

The Convex Eye-Lens mutt be brought nearer, or removed further from the Crofs-Hairs, according to the diverfe Conftitutions of Obfervators Eyes ; that so distant Objects may be diftinctly perceived, as likewise the Crofs-Hairs. This Eye-Glass is placed in another little moveable Tube, the greateft part of which lies concealed in another lube, as may be feen in

When the Eye-Glass wants cleanfing, or the Crofs-Hairs are broken or difordered, and others to be put in their place, the before-mentioned Brass or Iron Tube must be taken from between the Frames.

But the Conftruction of the Eye-Glass will be much more convenient, if, inftead of a Frame Fig. 7. only, you use a little square Box, about four Lines in Thicknefs, whose two opposite Sides, which are parallel to the Limb of the Quadrant, have Grooves along them, in which may move a little Plate of a mean Thicknefs, drilled thro' the Middle with a round Hole of a con- venient bigness.

Upon the Surface of this Plate, reprefented by the Figure a, are continued out two Dia- meters of the aforsaid Hole, eroding each other at Right Angles, one of which is parallel to the Limb, and the other perpendicular thereto, upon which are placed the Crofs-Hairs. This Plate is very useful for moving the said Crofs-Hairs, (trained at Right Angles a-crofs the Middle of the Hole, backwards or forwards, according to necefTity. And when the Hairs are placed as they fhould be, the aforsaid Plate is fixed to the Box with Wax, which ought to be furnifhed with a Aiding Cover, for keeping the Crofs-Hairs from Accidents.

The Infide of the Tube ought to be blackened with the Smoke of Rofin, in order to pre- fefve the Eye from too strong Rays which come from a luminous Object, that so the Ap- pearance thereof may be more perfect. Note, Inftead of having Crofs-Hairs in the before- mentioned Box, a little Piece of plain Glass may be used, having two fine Lines drawn upon it at Right Angles with the Point of a Diamond.

The Tekfcope being prepared and placed in a convenient Situation parallel to the Radius, or Side of the Quadrant ; the next thing to be done, is to find the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant, which is 90 Degrees distant from the Line of Collimation or Sight of the Tekfcope, or a Line parallel to it, pafling thro' the Center of the Quadranr. But, Firff, it will be necefiary to fay fomething concerning this Line of Collimation, or Sight, about which M. de la Hire fays, he had formerly a long Controverfy, with very celebrated and great Astronomers, who, for want of duly confidering Dioptricks, maintained, that it is impoflible to find a fettled and conftantLine of Collimation in these kind of Telescopes.

It is now manifest, that all the Rays proceeding from any one Point of an Object, after having pafled thro' the Glass Lens, will all concur in one and she fame Point, which is called the Focus, provided that the Distance of the Radiating Point from the Lens be greater than the Semidiameter of either of the Convexities of the Lens, which here we fuppok equal -, that besides, among the Rays coming from a Radiating Point, and falling upon the anterior Surface of the Glass, that which concurs with a Line pafling thro' the Centers of the Convexi- ties, will fuffer no Refraction at it's going in or coming out of the Glass ; therefore the Points of Objects that are in that Right Line, are reprefented in the fame Line, which is called the Axis of the Optick Tube, and the Point of the Axis which is in the Middle of the Glass's thickness, is called the Center of the Lens.

If the Right Line pafling thro' the Center of the Lens, and the Point where the Hairs crofs one another, agree with the Axis of the said Optick Tube, it will be the Line of Collimation of the Tekfcope ; and an Object very distant, placed in the Axis produced, will appear in the fame Point where the Hairs crofs one another : juft as in^common Indexes, where we take For the Line of Sight, the Right Line, that pafling thro' the Slits of the Sights, tends to the Object. But altho' it almost never happens in the Polition of Telescopes, which we have eftablifhed, that the Right Line tending from the Object to the Point wherein the Hairs trofs, and whereat the Object is reprefented, coincides with the Optick Axis ; neverthelefs we ftiall not defift finding that Line of Collimation tending from the Object to it's Picture, reprefented in the Point wherein the Flairs crofs each other ; which may be done in the following Manner. Fig. 8. Let X V be a Glass Lens, it's Axis A C B, and it's Center C •, let F be the Point wherein the

Hairs crofs one another without the Axis A C B. If from the Point F, which by Conftruc- tion is at the Focal Distance from the Lens, Rays pass thro' the Glass, they will fuffer a Re- fraction at their Entrance into the Glass, and a second Refraction at their going out thereof; after which, they will continue their way parallel to one another. Now there is one of these Rays, namely, F E, which coming from the Point F, after the first Refraction in the Point E, pafles thro' the Center C; for after a second Refraction at it's going out of the Glass in the Point D, it will continue it's way from Dto O, parallel to F E, according to Dioptrick Rules. But all the Rays feparated at their going out of the Glass may be taken as parallel, if they tend to a very distant Point O, therefore they are also parallel to the Ray F E O, which is produced from the Object directly to the Point O •, and it is this Right Line FE O, which we call the Line of Collimation, in the aforsaid Pofition of Telescopes, and it will always remain the fame, if the Situation of the Glafles be not changed, that is, if the Lens and the Crofs-Hairs are in the fame Pofition and Distance. The Object O being in one of the extreme Points of the Right Line F E O, will be reprefented in the Point F.

Note, The Distance between the principal Ray O D, falling from the Point O of the Object upon the Lens, and it's refracted Ray E F, is always lefier than the Thicknefs of the said Lens D E, which is infenfible, and of no Importance, in the Distance of a very distant Object, and the Distance of the parallel Rays O D, O E F, will be so much the less, as the Lens is more directly turned towards the Pofition of the Crofs-Hairs.

We come now to fhew how to find the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant, which is thus : Having fixed the Plane of the Quadrant in a vertical Pofition, by means of the Plumb-Line CD, direct the Telescope towards a very distant vifible Point, nigh to the Senfible Horizon, in refpect of the Place where the Telescope of the Instrument is placed ; which may be first known by marking the Point B upon the Limb, in the Radius C B, parallel to the Axis of the Tube, which may be nearly done -, and by taking the Point D, distant from the Point B 90 Degrees ; for when the Piumb-Line falls upon the Point D, the Object appearing m the Point wherein the Hairs crofs one another, will be nigh to the Horizon ; for the Scnfible Horizon must be at Right Angles with the Plumb-Line CD. But since we are noi yet certain whether the Telescope be perfectly Horizontal, the Instrument mult be turned upfide down, so that the Point D may be above, and the Center below; but it is necefr- ry in this Tranfpofition, that the Line of Collimation be at the fame Height as it was in the tint Pofition. Llaving again directed the Telescope towards the Point first ob- ferved, so that it may appear in the Point wherein the Hairs crofs, and having adjufted the Cylinder in the Center of the Instrument, fallen the Plumb-Line with Wax upon the Limb in the Point D ; and if it exactly falls upon the Center C, it is certain that the Line of Colli- mation is horizontal. For this Line of Collimation will remain the fame in both Situations of the Quadrant, and produced with the Vertical Line C D, the Point D will be the Beginning of the Bivifions of the Limb.

But if, after having turned the Instrument upfide down, the Plumb-Line fufpended at the Point D, does not precifely fall upon the Center C, you must move it 'till it does pass thro' it, not any wife changing the Pofition of the Quadrant, nor the Glasses of the Telescope ; and then the Point E, upon which the Plumb-Line falls, must be marked in the circular Arc D E, defenbed about the Center C, passing thro' the Point D.

Now, I fay, if the Arc D E be bifected in the Point O, this Point will be the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the Radius CO will be at Right Angles with the Line of Collimation. This Operation is very manifest, for the Line of Collimation, or the Radius C B, parallel to it, will not be changed in either of the Pofitions of the Quadrant, if the Angle BCD, in the natural Situation of the Instrument, be greater than a Right Angle •, that is, if the Point of an Object: the Telescope is directed to, be under the Horizon, it is manifest that the Vertical Line C D produced, anfwering to the Plumb-Line, makes with the Line of Collimation an Angle lels than a right one, viz. the Complement of the Angle BCD, which is -qua! to the Angle BCE; therefore the Angle BCD, which is a Mean between that which is greater than a right one, and that leffer, made by the Radius C O, and the Line of Collimation, will be a right Angle ; which was to be proved.

We may yet otherwise have the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, by knowing a Point perfectly level with the Eye •, then placing the Telescope in that Point, and that place of theLirnb upon which the Plumb-Line plays, will give the first Point of Division.

The Proof of this Operation is juftified, if (the Plumb-Line passing thro' the Point O) a very distant Object appears in the Point wherein the Hairs crofs one another. For having inverted the Instrument, and the Telescope being always directed towards the fame Object, the Plumb-Line will pass thio' the Points O and C, otherwise there will be some Error in the Obfervations.

Being well allured of the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, you must draw about; the Center C two Portions of Circles, an Inch distance from each other, between which the Divisions of the Limb are to be included ; to do which, you must use a Beam-Compass, v/hofe Points are very fine, one of which, next to the End, moves backwards or forwards, by help of a Screw and Nut, which is adjufted to the End of the Branch of the Com- pass.

Then one of the Points of the Compass being placed in O, the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the other being distant therefrom the Length of the Radius of one or the laid concentrick Arcs, make a Mark upon the correfpondent concentrick Arc, which ex- actly divide into two equal Parts, one of which being laid off beyond the Mark, will give the Point B ; and so the Quadrant O B will be divided into three equal Parts, each being 30 Degrees.

Thefe Parts being each divided into three more, and each of these lafl into two ; and, finally, each of the Parts arifing into five more equal ones ; the Quadrant will be divided in- to 90 Degrees, each of which being again divided into fix equal Parts, every 10th Minute will be had.

The outward and inward concentrick Arcs of the Limb being very exactly divided, as we have directed, very fine Lines must diagonally be drawn thereon •, that is, from the firit Point of Division of the inward Arc, to the second Point of Division of the outward Arc ; and so on from one Division in the inward Arc to the next enfuing Division of the outward Arc, as appears in Fig. 6. This being done, the Distance between the outward and inward Arcs must be divided into 10 equal Parts, thro' each Point of Division of which, must nine concentrick Arcs be drawn about the Center of the Quadrant C, which will divide the Dia- gonals into ten Parts ; and so the Limb of the Instrument will be divided into Degrees and Minutes. Great care ought to be taken, that so the Divisions may be very exactly drawn equal •, and that they may be as exact as poiTible, very good and fine Compasses exquifitely to draw the Lines and Circles must be used ; and in making the several Divisions, we use fine Spring Compasses, whose Points are as fine as a Needle, and a good dividing Knife. JSote, The Divisions of the Limb of the Quadrant for certain Uses, are continued about 5 Degrees beyond the Point O.

After this Instrument hath been carried in a Coach, or on Horfeback, &c. care ought to be taken to prove it, for fear left the Ghffes of the Telescope fhould have been dilbrdered, or the Crofs-Hairs removed, which often happens. Likewise when the Tube of the Telescope, if the Instrument be not conveyed, as aforsaid, is expofed to the Heat of the Sun, the Crofs- Hairs are too much ilretched, and afterwards when the Sun is abi'ent, they relax and become flack, and so are not very fit to be used : yet neverthelefs, if you think the Crofs-Hairs have not been moved, there is no necefllty of proving the Telescope, because the Object-Glass re- mains immoveable, and always the fame ; and the Crofs-Hairs, which by the Moifture of the Air are flackened, will often become tight again in fine Weather.

NOTE If a Telescope be placed to an Instrument already divided, it is very difficult to make it agree with the Divisions of the Limb ; therefore having proved it, according to the Directions before given, we shall find how much greater or leiler than a Right Angle the Telescope makes, with a Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and this Difference must be regarded in all Obfervations made with the Instrument: For if the Angle be greater than a Right one, all Altitudes observed will be greater than the true ones by the Quantity of the said Difference ; and contrariwife, if the aforenamed Angle be lefier than a Right Angle, the true Altitudes will be greater than the observed ones. Notwith- standing this, the Crofs-Hairs may be so placed, that the Line of Collimation of the Telescope may make a Right Angle with the Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of Division of the&gt; Quadrant, in applying the Crofs-Hairs on a moveable Plate, as we have mentioned in the Conftruction. But because in conveying this Instrument to distant Places, the Proof thereof must be often made-, and since the Method already laid down is Subject to great Inconve- niencies, as well on account of the Difficulty of inverting the Instrument, so that the Tube of the Telescope may be at the fame Height, as because of the different Refractions of the At- mofphere near the Horizon, at different Hours of the Day ; as likewise because of the Agita- tion and Undulation of the Air, and other the like Obftacles : Therefore we shall here fliew two other ways of rectifying these Instruments, that so any one may chufe that which appears mod convenient for him.

Now the first of these Methods is this : You must chufe some Place from whence a distant Object may be perceived diftinctly, at lead iooo Toifes, and whose Elevation above the Horizon .does not exceed the Number of Degrees of the Limb of the Quadrant continued out beyond the Beginning of the Divisions. Now after you have observed the Altitude of the said Object, as it appears by the Degrees of the Limb, a Pail brim-full of Water, or fome broad-mouthed Vessel, must be placed before, and as nigh to the Quadrant as pofllble, which must be raifed or lowered until the said Object be perceived thro' the Telescope upon the Surface of the Water, as in a Looking-Glass, which will not be difficult to do •, provided the Surface of the Water be not difturbed by the Wind ; whence the Depreflion of the said Object will be had in Degrees by Reflexion, and it will appear in an erect Situation, because the Telescope is compofed of two convex Glasses, which reprefent Objects inverted, tut by Reflexion inverted Objects appear erect, and erect Objects inverted.

But you ought to obferve, that when the Angle made by the Line of Collimation, and the Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, is greater than a right one, the Depreflion of the aforsaid Object will appear as an Altitude •, that is, when you look thro' the Telescope at the Image of the Object in the Surface of the Water, the Plumb-Line of the Quadrant will fall on the left Side of the first Point O of the Divisions of the Limb, and not on the Divisions continued out beyond the Point O. And contrariwife, in other Cafes, when the Angle the Line of Collimation makes with the Radius pafllng thro' the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, is leffer than a right one, the Altitude of the Object will appear by the Divisions of the Limb, as tho' it was depreffed •, that is, when you look at the aforsaid Object thro' the Telescope, the Plumb-Line of the Quadrant will fall upon the Divisions of the Limb continued out beyond the Point O. But in all Cafes, without regarding the Degrees of Altitude or Depreffion, denoted by the Plumb-Line, when the Object and it's Image, in the Surface of the Water, is efpied thro' the Telescope, the exact middle Point between the two Places whereon the Plumb-Line falls at both Obfervations on the Limb, is vertical, and anfwers to the Zenith with refpect to the Line of Collimation of the Telescope.

Now having found the Error of the Instrument, that is, the Difference between the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the said middle Point anfwering to the Zenith, you must try to place the Crofs-Hairs in their true Pofition, if you can conveniently ; but if nor, regard must be had to the Error in all Obfervations, whether of Elevation, or Depreflion.

But note, if the Object be near, and elevated some Minutes above the Horizon, the true Error of the Instrument may be found in the following Manner.

We have three things given in a Triangle, one of which is the known Distance between the Place of Obfervation and the Object ; the other the Distance between the Middle of the Te- lefcope, and the Point of the Surface of the Water, upon which a reflected Ray falls ; and the last, the Angle included between those two Sides ; that is, the Arc of the Limb contained between the two Places of the Limb upon which the Plumb-Line falls in, obferving, as afore- said, the Object and it's Image on the Surface of the Water thro' the Telescope: I fay, we

have the said two Sides and included Angle given, to find the Angle opposite to the leffer Side. This being done, if the Arc of the Limb included between the two Places whereon the Plumb-Line falls, in obferving, as aforsaid, be diminished, on the Side of the Limb pro- duced, by the Quantity of the Angle found, the Middle of the remaining Arc will be the true vertical Point. Note, To find the Distance between the Middle of the Tube of the Telescope, and the Point of the Surface of the Water upon which the reflected Rays fall, you may use a Rod or Thread prolonged from the said Tube to the Surface of the Water.

The other way (which is very fimple, but yet not eafy) of proving whether the Line of Collimation of the fixed Telescope be right, is thus: We suppose in this Method, that the Limb of the Quadrant is continued out, and divided into fbme few Degrees beyond 90. Now in some ferene ftill Night, we take the Meridian Altitude of some Star near the Zenith, having first turned the divided Face of the Limb of the Quadrant towards the East. This bein°- done, within a Night or two after, we again obferve the Altitude of the fame Star, the divided Face of the Limb being Westward. Then the Middle of the Arc of the Limb between the Altitudes at each Obfcrvation, will be the Point of 90 Deg. that is, a Point thro* which a Radius of the Quadrant passes, parallel to the Line of Collimation of the Telescope. Note, This Method is very useful for proving the Pofition of Telescopes, which are adjufted not only to Quadrants, but principally to Sextants, Octants, &c. for by means thereof may be found which of the Radii of the several Instruments are parallel to the Lines of Collima- tion of the Telescope.

We shall hereafter fliew the Manner of taking the Altitudes of Celeftial Bodies ; as likewife how to obferve them thro' Telescopes.

Of the Index, or moveable Ann of the Quadrant.

I shall conclude this Chapter in faying fomething concerning the Construction and Use of Fig. 9* this Index, which is no more than a moveable Index, with a Telescope adjufted thereto, which produces the fame Effect as the Indexes of other Instruments do ; that is, to make any Angle at pleafure with the Telescope fixed to the Quadrant. The principal Part of this Index is an Iron or Brass Ruler, drilled at one End, and is so adjufted to the Central Cylin- der, of which we have already fpoken, that it has a circular Motion only.

Upon this Ruler are fattened two Iron or Brass Frames, in one of which, viz. that which is next to the Center of the Instrument, the Object-Glass is placed •, and in the other, the Eye-Glass and Crofs-Hairs, which together make up a Telescope, alike in every thing to the other fixed Telescope of the Quadrant.

At the End of the Index joining to the Limb, is a little Opening about the bigness of a Degree of the Limb, thro' the Middle of which is ftrained a Hair, which is continued to the Center of the Quadrant. But because in using the Index the laid Hair is fubject to divers Inconftancies of the Air, it is better to use a thin Piece of clear Horn, or a flat Glass, ad- jufted to the aforsaid little Opening in a Frame, having a Right Line drawn upon that Sur- face thereof next to the Limb, so that it tends ro the Center of the Instrument, Note. The Frame is fattened in the little Opening by means of Screws.

Now the Index being fattened to the Center before it is used, the Telescope must be proved, that so it may be known whether the fixed Telescope agrees therewith. To do which, having placed the Plane of the Instrument horizontally, and directed the fixed Telescope to fome Point of a vifible Object, distant at least 500 Toifes ; afterwards the moveable Telescope must be pointed to the fame Object, that so one of the Crofs-Hairs, viz. that which is perpendicular to the Plane of the Quadrant, may appear upon the aforsaid Point of the Object : for it matters not whether the Interferon of the Hairs appear thereon, or the per- pendicular Hair only. Then, if the Line drawn upon the Horn or Glass on the Index falls upon the 90th Degree of the Limb of the Quadrant, the Telescopes agree : if not, either the Horn or Glass must be removed 'till the Line drawn thereon falls upon the 90th Degree of the Divisions of the Limb, and then it must be fattened to the Index •, or else regard must be had, in all Obfervations, to the Difference between the first Point of the Divisions of the Limb, and the Line drawn upon the said Piece of Horn or Glass,

Of the Confti-uEtion and Use of the Micrometer.

TH E Micrometer is an Instrument of great Use in Aftronomy, and principally in meafunng p,g. ^ the apparent Diameters of the Planets, and taking small Distances not exceeding a Degree, or Degree and a half. This Instrument is compofed of two rectangular Brass Frames, one of which, viz. ABCD, is commonly 2 \ Inches long, and 1 {- broad, having the Sides A B and C D, divided into equal Parts, about four Lines distant from each other (for this is according to the Turns of the Screw, as shall be hereafter explained), but in such manner, that the Lines drawn thro' each Division be perpendicular to the Sides A B and C D, and having human Hairs ffrained from Division to Division, iaftened with Wax to the Places 2, 2, £s?V.

The other Frame E F G H, whose Length E F is one Inch and a half, is so adjufted to the former Frame, that the Sides E F and G H of the one, may move along the Sides A B and C D of the other, without being feparated therefrom •, which is done by means of Dove-tail Grooves. The Face of this second Frame next to the divided Face of the former, is likewise furnifhed with a Hair, (trained at the Place 4 ; so that when the Frame is moving, the said Hair may be always parallel to the Hairs on the other Frame. The Screw I, whose Cylinder is about four or five Lines in Diameter, goes thro', and turns in the Side B D of one of the Frames, which lor this purpofe is made thicker than the other Sides. The End of this Screw is cut so as to go through a round Hole made in the Side F PI of the leffer Frame, which for this purpofe is likewise made thicker than the other Sides ; there is also a little Pin K put thro' a Hole made in the End of the Screw, that so the leffer Frame can no ways move, but in turning the Screw to the right or left, according as you would have the Frame move forwards or backwards. M N is a circular Plate about an Inch in Diameter, Faflened with two Screws to the Side B D of the Frame. This Plate is commonly divided in- to 20 of 60 equal Parts, which ferve to reckon the Revolutions and Parts of the Screw, by means of the Index M, which is adjufted under the Neck of the said Screw, and turns with it. Now the Divisions of the Sides of the Frame A B C D, are made according to the Breadth of the Threads of the Screw •, for if, for example, the Divisions are defined to be 10 Turns of the Screw distant from each other, turn the laid Screw ten times about, and note how far the Frame hath moved : if it has moved four Lines, the Divisions mil ft be four Lines distant from each other •, and so of others.

Now because Hairs are fubject to divers Accidents by Heat, and otherwise, therefore M. de la Hire propofes a very thin and lmooth piece of Glass to be 11 fed inftead of them, adjufted in Grooves made in the Sides of the Frame, and having very fine parallel Lines drawn there- on, which produce the fame Effect: as the parallel Hairs. All the Difficulty confifts in chusing a very fine and well polifhed Piece of Glass, and drawing the Lines extremely nice ; for the Defaults will grofsly appear, when the said Lines are perceived in a Telescope.

Note, Theie Lines must be very lightly drawn upon the Glass with a small Diamond, whose Point is very fine.

This Instrument is joined to a Telescope, by means of the prominent Pieces L, L, which (Vide in a Kind of parallelogramick Tin-Box, at the two Sides of which are two Circular Openings, wherein are foldered two fhort Tubes ; that on one Side being to receive the Tube carrying the Eye-Glass ; and that on the other Side, the Tube carrying the Object-Glass, fo that the Micrometer may be in the Focus of the said Object-Glass.

Use of the Micrometer.

In order to use this Instrument, a lively Reprefentation of Objects appearing thro' the Telescope must be made in the Point whereat the parallel Flairs are placed ; therefore if the Object-Glass be placed at it's Focal Distance from the Micrometer, more or less, according to the Nature and Conftitution of the Eyes of the Obfervator, the Objects and the parallel Hairs will appear diftinctly in the said Focus.

If then the Focal Length of the Object-Glass be measured in Lines or 12th Parts of Inches, or, which is all one, the Distance from the Center of the Object-Glass to the parallel Hairs of the Micrometer, be measured, this Distance is to the Length of four Lines, which is the Interval between two fixed parallel Hairs nigheft each other, as Radius is to the Tan- gent of the Angle, fubtended by the two neaRest parallel Hairs. This is evident from Diop- tricks : for the Distance between the Object and the Obfervator's Eye, is supposed to be io great, that the focal Length of the Object-Glass, compared therewith, is of no confequence ; so that the Rays proceeding from the Points of the Object directly pass thro' the Center of the Object-Glass in the fame Manner, as tho' the Obfervator's Eye was placed in the said Object- Glass. This may be fhewn by Experience thus :

Draw two black Lines parallel upon a very fmooth and white Board, whose Interval let be such, that at the Distance of 200 or 300 Toifes, they may be met with or embraced by two parallel Hairs of the Micrometer. This being done, remove the Table in a convenient Place (there being no Wind ftirring), so far from the Telescope, until the Lines drawn thereon, which must be perpendicular to a Right Line drawn from the Table to the Micrometer, be catched by two fixed parallel Hairs of the Micrometer -, and then the Distance between the Table and the Object-Glass will have the fame Proportion to the Distance between the Lines on the Board, as Radius is to the Tangent of the Angle fubtended by two Hairs of the Micrometer.

Now move the Frame E F G H, by means of the Screw, 'till it's Hair exactly agrees with one of the parallel Flairs of the other Frame ; and when this is done, obferve the Situation of the Index of the Screw ; then turn the Screw until the said I lair of the Frame E F G H agrees with the next neaRest fixed Hair of the other Frame •, or, which is the fame thing, move the Frame EFGH the Length of four Lines, or one third of an Inch, which may be eafily known hy means of the Objcct-Glass, which magnifies Objects, and count the Revolutions and Parts of the Screw, compieated in moving the said Frame that Length. Finally, make a Table, ftiewing how many Revolutions, and Parts of a Revolution of the said Screw, are anfwerable to every Minute and Second, by having the Angle fubtended bv the two black Lints on the Board given, and taking the Revolutions proportional to the Angles •, that is, if a certain Number of Revolutions give a certain Angle, half this !\'umber will give half the Angle, fcV. And this Proportion is exact enough in these small Angles.

Now the Manner of taking the apparent Diameters of the Planets, is thus : Having di- !cchd the Telescope, and it's Micrometer, towards a Planet, difpofe the Hairs, by the Mo- tion of the Telescope, in such a Manner, that one of the fixed parallel Hairs do juft touch une Edge of the Planet, and turn the Screw 'till the moveable Hair juft touches the opposite Edo-e of the said Planet. Then, by means of the Table, you will know how many Minutes or Seconds correfpond to the Number of Revolutions or Parts, reckoning from the Point of the Plate over which the Index flood when the fixed Hair touched one Edge of the Planet, to the Point it frauds over when the moveable Hair touches the opposite Edge ; and confe- ouently, the apparent Diameter of the. said Planet will be had. And in this manner may small Angles on Earth be taken, which may be eafier done than those of the Celeftial Bodies, feecaufe of their Immobility.

This Method is convenient enough for measuring the apparent Diameters of the Planets, if the Body of any one of them moves between the parallel Hairs. Yet it ought to be ob- ferved, that the Sun and Moon's Diameters appear very unequal upon the account of Re- fraction ; for in small Elevations above the Horizon, by the Space of 30 Minutes, the verti- cal Diameters appear fomething leffer than they really are in the Horizon, and the hori- zontal Diameters cannot be found, unlefs with much Trouble, and several repeated Obferva- tions •, as likewise the Distance between two Stars, or the Horns of the Moon, because of their Diurnal Motions, which appear thro' the Telescope very fwift.

If two Stars of different Altitudes pass by the Meridian at different Times, the Difference of their Altitudes will be the Difference of their Distances from the Equator towards either of the Poles, which is called their Difference of Declination •, and by their Difference of Time in coming to the Meridian, the Difference of their Distance from a determinate Point of the Equator, that is, the first Degree of Aries will be had $ and this is their Difference of Right Afcenfion.

If the two Stars are distant from each other, we have Time enough, in the Interval of their PalTage by the Meridian and Micrometer, to finifh the Operations regarding the first, before proceeding to those of the second ; but if they be very near each other, it is extremely difficult to make both the Obfervations at the fame Time, that so the two Stars may be pre- cifely catched in the Meridian. But M. de la Hire fhews how to remedy this Inconveniency, by only using the common Micrometer : for the Obfervation of the PalTage of Stars be- tween, or upon the Hairs of the Micrometer, will give, by eafy Confequences, their Dif- ference of Right Aicenfion and Declination, without even supposing a Meridian known or drawn.

But if the Difference of Declination and Right Afcenfion of two Stars that cannot be taken in between the Hairs of the Micrometer be required, this may be found in the follow- ing Manner.

We adjuft a Crofs-Hair to the Micrometer, cutting the parallel ones at Right Angles, Fig. 10. which we fallen with Wax to the Middle of the Sides AC and B D. Then the Telescope, and it's Micrometer, being fix(d in a convenient Pofitio.n, so that the Stars may fucceffively pass by the parallel Hairs, as the Stars A and S, in Figure 10 -, we obferve, by a second Pendulum Clock, the Time wherein the first Star A touches the Point in which the afore- mentioned Crofs-Hair A S erodes some one of the parallel Hairs, as A d. The Micrometer being disposed for this Obfervation, which is not difficult to do, reckon the Seconds of Time elapfed between the Obfervations made in the Point A, and the arrival of the said Star to the Point B, being the Concourfe of another parallel Hair BD. We likewise obferve the Time wherein the other Star S meets the Crofs-Hair at the Point S, and then at the Point D of the parallel Hair B D. Note, It is the fame thing if the Star S first meets the parallel Hair in D, and afterwards the Crofs-Hair in S.

Now as the Number of Seconds the Star A is moving through the Space A B, is to the Number of Seconds the Star S is moving through the Space SD; so is the Distance A C, known in Minutes and Seconds of a Degree in the Micrometer, to the Distance C S, in Minutes and Seconds of a Degree. But the Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space AB, must be converted into Minutes and Seconds of a great Circle, by the Rule of Pro- portion.

Having first converted the Seconds of the Time of the said Motion from A to B, which may be here citeemed as a Right Line, or an Arc of a great Circle, into Minutes and Se- conds of a Circle, in allowing 15 Minutes of a Circle to every Minute of an Hour, and the fame for Seconds : We fay, by the Rule of Proportion, As Radius is to the Sine Com- plement of the Stars known Declination, So is the Number of Seconds in the Arc A B also known, to the Number of Seconds of the fame Kind contained in the Arc C A, as an Arc of a great Circle.

Moreover, in the Right-angled Triangle CAB, the Sides CA, and AB being given, as likewise the Right Angle at C, we find the Angle CAB; and i'uppofing CPR perpendi- cular to the Line A B, A B will be to C A as C A is to A P.

But in the Right-angled Triangle CAP, we have (besides the Right Angle) the Angle A, as likewise the Side C A given ; therefore As Radius is to C A, So is the Sine of the An»le CAP, to C P. And as the Number of horary Seconds of the Motion from A to B, is to the horary Seconds in the Motion from S to D, so is C P to C R. Then taking C R from C P, or else adding them together, according as AB or S D is next to the Point C, and we fliall have the Quantity of P R in parts of a great Circle, which will be the Difference of the two Stars Declinations. We have no regard here to the Difference of Mo- tion through the Spaces A B and S D, caused by the Difference of Declination, bccaufe it is of no Confequence in the Difference of Declinations, as they are observed by the Micro- meter.

Finally, As A B is to A P, So is the Number of horary Seconds of the observed Motion of the Star A through the Space A B, to the Number of Seconds of the Motion of the said Star through the Space A P. Wherefore the Time when the Star A comes to P, will be known. But as the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space A B is to the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space S D ; So is the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through the Space A P, to the Number of Horary Seconds of the Motion through S R.

Moreover ; The Time when the Star S is in S is known, to which if the Time of the Motion through S R be added, when A and S are on the fame Side the Point C, or fub- flracted if otherwise, and the Time when the Star is in R will be had. Now the Difference of Time between the Arrivals of the Stars in P and R, that is, the Difference of the Times wherein they come to the Meridian, will be the Difference of their Right Afcenfions, which by the Rule of Proportion may be reduced into Degrees and Minutes. Note, We have no regard here to the proper Motion of the Stars.

From hence it is eafy to know how, inflead of the parallel Hair A B, to use another pa-rallel one, pafling thro' A, or any other, as also a moveable Parallel, provided that they formSimilar Triangles, as will be eafily conceived by what hath been already said.

The aforsaid Operation may yet be done by another Method. For the parallel Hairs of the Micrometer being so disposed, that the first of the Stars may move upon one of them ; and if the Time wherein the said Star croffes the Crofs-Hair of the Micrometer be observed, and if moreover the Time wherein the other Star croffes the said Crofs-Hair be observed, and at the fame Time the moveable parallel Hair be adjufted to the second Star, no ways altering the Micrometer •, we mail have, by means of the Distance between that parallel Hair, the fitfb Star moved upon, and the moveable parallel Hair, the Distance between two parallel Circles, to the Equator, palling thro' the Places of the said Stars, which is their Difference of Declination. And if moreover, the Difference of the Times between the Paffages of each of the Stars by the Crofs-Hair of the Micrometer be converted into Minutes and Seconds of a Degree, the said Stars afcenfional Difference will be had. This needs no Example.

But if this be required between some Star, and the Sun or Moon •, as for Example, Mercury moving under the Sun's Disk ; place the Micrometer fo, that the Limb of the Sun may move along one of the parallel Hairs, and obferve the Times when the Sun's antecedent and confequent Limbs, and the Center of Mercury, touch the Crofs-Hair ; then the Difference of Mercury's Declination, and the Sun's Limb, by means of the moveable Hair, will be had, the Micrometer remaining fixed. And if to the Time of the Obfervation of the Sun's an- tecedent Limb, half the Time elapfed between the Paffages of the antecedent and confequent Limb be added, we fliall have the Time of the Paffage of the Sun's Center by the Crofs-Hair of the Micrometer •, and by this means the Difference of the Times between the Paffage of the Sun's Center and Mercury over the Crofs-Hair, that is, by the Meridian, will be ob- tained. And this Difference of Time being converted into Degrees and Minutes, will give their afcenfional Difference.

Moreover, since the Sun's Center is in the Ecliptick, if in the fame Time as the said Center passes over the Crofs-Hair (the Sun's true Place being otherwise known), you feek in Ta- bles, the Angle of the Ecliptick with the Meridian, you will likewise have the Angle that Fig, , K the Ecliptick makes with the Sun's Parallel, as in Fig. 1 1. the Angle OCR, of the Ecliptick

O C B, and of the Parallel to the Equator R C. Let P C be the Meridian, Mercury in M, the Center of the Sun in C, MR parallel to P C, and C R the Difference of Right Afcen- fion between the Center of the Sun C, and Mercury in M. Now the Minutes of the Dif- ference of the Right Afcenfion C R in the Parallel, being reduced to Minutes of a great Cir- cle, fay, As Radius is to the Sine Complement of the Sun's or Mercury' % Declination •, So is the Number of Seconds of the Difference of Right Afcenfion, to the Number of Seconds

C K, as the Arc of a grea: Circle. Then in the Triangle CRT, Right-angled at R, we have the Side C R (now found) -, as also the Angle R C T, viz. the Difference between the pjcjht Angle, and the Angle made by the Ecliptick and Meridian •, whence the Hypothe- rmic C T, and the Side R T may be found. And if R T be taken from M R, which is the Difference of Declination of Mercury in M, and the Center of the Sun in C, there will re- main T M. Again, As C T is to T R, So is T M toTO; MO will be the Latitude of Mercury at the Time of Obfervation : And adding T O to the Side C T, we shall have C O^ the Difference of Longitude between Mercury and the Sun's Center. Therefore the Sun's Lon°itude being known, that of Murcurys may also be found.

If moreover, two or three Hours after the first Obfervation of Mercury in M, the Diffe- rence of Declination and Right Afcenfion thereof be again observed, when he is come to N, we shall find, as before, N Q^the Latitude of Mercury, and C Q^the Difference of Longi- tude of him and the Sun's Center C ; whence the Place of the apparent Node of Mercury will be had. But note, The Point of Concourfe A, in the Right Line M N, with the Ecliptick CB, is not the Place of the said Node, with regard to the Point C, because between the Obfervations made in the Points M and N, the Sun by it's proper Motion is moved a few Minutes forwards, according to the Succeffion of Signs, which notwithstanding we have not regarded in the Obfervations. Therefore fay, As the Difference of the Latitudes M O and N Q^, to O Q^, minus the proper Motion of the Sun, between the Obfervations made in M and N •, So is MO to the Distance O A, whence the true Diffance from the Sun's Center C to Mercury's Node A will be had. Note, The proper Motion of the Sun between the Obfervations must be taken from O Q^, because during that Time Mercury is re: ograde ; but if it's Motion had been direct, the Sun's Motion must have been added to O Q^

In the Obfervations of Mercury's Paffage under the Sun's Disk, we have had no regard to the proper Motion of the Sun, as being of small confequence •, but if it is required to be brought into Confideration, C O and C Qjnuf!: be diminished by so much of the Sun's pro- per Motion, as is performed in the Interval of Time between the Paffage of the Sun's Center and Mercury, by the Meridian.

By the fame Method, the Distances of Planets from each other, or from fixed Stars near the Ecliptick, may be observed •, neverthelefs, excepting some Minutes, not only upon the account of the proper Motions of the Stars, but alio because of their Distance from the Ecliptick or too great Latitude. Note, This second Method for finding the Difference of Declination and Right Afcenfion is not exacter than the former^ altho' it is performed with less Calculation : for it is so difficult to difpofe the Hairs of the Micrometer according to the Parallel of the Diurnal Motion, that it cannot be done, but by several uncertain trials.

M. de la Hire hath also invented another Micrometer, whose ConftrucYion is eafy •, for it Fig. 12; is only a Pair of proportional Compalfes, whose Legs on one Side, are, for Example, ten Times longer than those on the other Side. The fhorteft Legs of these Compasses must be put thro' a Slit made in the Tube of the Telescope, and placed so in the Focus of the Object- Glass, that the two Points, which ought to be very fine, may be applied to all Objects re- prefented in the said Focus. Then if the Angle fubtended by the i^iftance of two Objects in the Focus of the Object-Glass be required to be found by means of these Compasses, you must fhut or open the two fhorteft Legs 'till their Points juft touch the Rcprefentations of the Objects ; and keeping the Compasses to this Opening, if the longeft Legs be applied to the Divisions of a Scale, the Minutes and Seconds .contained in the Angle fubtended by the Distance of the aforsaid Objects will be had. The Manner of dividing the said Scale, is the fame as that for finding the Distances of the parallel Hairs of the other Micrometer, in faying by the Rule of Proportion, As the Number of Lines contained in the Focal Length of the Object-Glass, is to one Line ; So is Radius to the Tangent of the Angle fubtended by one Line in the Focus : therefore if the longeft Legs be ten Times longer than the others, ten Lines on the Scale will measure the said Angle fubtended by one Line, which being known, it will be eafy to divide the Scale for Minutes and Seconds.

This Micrometer may be used for taking the apparent Diameters of the Planets •, as also to take the Distances of fixed Stars which are near each other, and measure small Distances on Earth. Candle, that so one may fee them with the Stars, thro' the Telescope: and this is cone two ways.

First, We enlighten the Object-Glass of the Telescope, in obliquely bringing a Candle near to it, that so it's Smoke or Body do not hinder the Progrefs of the Rays coining from the Star. But if the Object-Glass be fomcthing deep in the Tube, it cannot fufficicntly be enlightened, without the Candle's being very near it, and this hinders the Sight of the Star •, and if the Telescope is above fix Feet long, it will be difficult fufficiently to enlighten the Object-Glass, that so the crofs Hairs be diftin6tly perceived.

Secondly, We make a fuffkient Opening in tne Tube of the Telescope near the Focus of the Object-Glass, thro' which we enlighten with a Candle the crofs Hairs placed in the Focus.

But this Method is fubject to several Inconveniences, for the Light being so near the Obfervator's Eyes, he is otten incommoded thereby. And moreover, since the crofs Hairs are by that Opening uncovered and txpofed to the Air, they lofe their Situation, become flack, or may be broken.

Besides this, the said second Method is liable to an Inconveniency for which it ought to be entirely neglected ; and that is, that it is iubject to an Error, which is, that according to the Pofition of the Light illuminating the crofs Hairs, the said Hairs will appear in different Situations : because, for Example, when the Horizontal Hair is enlightened above, we per- ceive a luminous Line, which may be taken for the said Hair, and which appears at it's upper Superficies. And contrariwife, when the said Hair is enlightened underneath, the lu- minous Line will appear at it's lower Superficies, the Hair not being moved ; and this Error will be the Diameter of the Hair, which often amounts to more than fix Seconds. But M. de la Hire hath found a Remedy for this Inconveniency. For he often found, in Obferva- tions made in Moonfhine Nights, in Weather a little foggy, that the crofs Hairs were di- flinctly perceived \ whereas, when the Heavens were ferene, they could fcarcely be feen : whence he bethought himfelf to cover that End of the Tube next to the Object-Glass with a Piece of Gawze, or very fine white filken Crape ; which fucceeded so well, that a Link placed at a good Distance from the Telescope so enlightened the Crape, that the crofs Hairs diftinctly appeared, and the Sight of the Stars was no way obfeured.

Solar Obfervations cannot be made without placing a fmoked Glass between the Telescope and the Eye, which may thus be prepared. Take two equal and well poli (Tied round Pieces of flat Glass, upon the Surface of one of which, all round it's Limb, glew a Pafteboard Ring •, then put the other Piece of Glass into the Smoke of a Link, taking it several times out, and putting it in again, for fear left the Heat of the Link fhould break it, until the Smoke be so thick thereon, that the Link can fcarcely be feen thro' it : but the Smoke must not be all over it of the fame Thicknefs, that so that Place thereof may be chosen anfwering to the Sun's Splendor. This being done, this Glass thus blackened, must be glewed to the before-mentioned Pafteboard Ring, with it's blackened Side next to the other Glass, that fo the Smoke may not be rubbed off.

Note, When the Sun's Altitude is observed thro' a Telescope, confiding of but two Gtaffes, it's upper Limb will appear as tho' it were the lower one.

There are two principal Kinds of Obfervations of Stars, the one being when they are in the Meridian, and the other when they are in vertical Circles.

If the Pofition of the Meridian be known, and then the Plane of the Quadrant be placed in the Meridian Circle, by means of the plumb Line fufpended at the Center, the Meridian Altitudes of Stars may be eafily taken, which are the principal Operations, ferving as a Foundation to the whole Art of Aftronomy. The Meridian Altitude of a Star may likewise be had by means of a Pendulum Clock, if the exact Time of the Star's Paffage by the Me- ridian be known. Now it must be observed, that Stars have the fame Altitude during a Minute before and after their Paffage by the Meridian, if they be not in or near the Zenith ; but if they be, their Altitudes must be taken every Minute, when they are near the Meridian, which we suppose already known, and then their greateft or lead Altitudes will be the Me- ridian Altitudes fought.

As to the Obfervations made without the Meridian in Vertical Circles, the Pofition of a given Vertical Circle must be known, or found by the following Method.

First, The Quadrant and it's Telescope remaining in the fame Situation wherein it was when the Altitude of a Star, together with the Time of it's Paffage by the Interfection of the crofs Hairs in the Focus of the Object-Glass, was taken, we obferve the Time when the Sun, or some fixed Star, whole Latitude and Longitude is known, arrives to the Verti- cal Hair in the Telescope ; and from thence the Pofition of the said Vertical Circle will be had, and also the observed Star's true Place.

But if the Sun, or some other Star, does not pass by the Mouth of the Tube of the Telescope, and if a Meridian Line be otherwise well drawn upon a Fioor, or very level Ground, in the Place of Obfervation, you must fufpend a Plumb-Line to some fixed Place, aboii-: three or four Toifes distant from the Quadrant, under which upon the Floor must a Mark be made in a right Line with the Plumb-Line. This being done, you must put a thin Piece of Brass, or Pafteboard, very near the Object-Glass, in the Middle of which there is a small Slit vertically placed, and passing thro' the Center of the Circular Figure of the Object-Glass. Now by means of this Slit, the beforementioned Plumb-Line may be per- ceived thro' the Telescope, which before could not be feen, because of its Nearnefs thereto. Then the Plumb-Line must be removed and fufpended, so that it be perceived in a right Line with a vertical Hair in the Focus of the Object-Glass, and a Point marked on the Floor directly under it. And if a right Line be drawn thro this Point, and that marked under the Plumb-Line before it was removed, the laid Line will meet the Meridian drawn upon the Floor; and so we shall have the Pofition of the vertical Circle the observed Scar is in with refpect to the Meridian, the Angle whereof may be measured in afluming known Lengths upon the two Lines Irom the Point of Concourfe ; for if thro' the Extremities of th-fe known Lengths, a Line or Base be drawn, we shall have a Triangle, whole three Sides being known, the Angle at the Vertex may be found, which will be the Angle made by the Vertical Circle and Meridian.

The Manner of taking the Meridian Altitudes of Star's.

It is very difficult to place the Plane of the Quadrant in the Meridian exactly enough to take Meridian Altitude of a Star ; for unlefs there be a convenient Place and a Wall, where the Quadrant may be firmly fattened in the Plane of the Meridian, which is very difficult to do, we shall not have the true Pofition of the Meridian, proper to obferve all the Stars, as we have mentioned already. Therefore it will be much eafier, and principally in Journeys, to use a portable Quadrant, by means of which the Altitude of a Star must be observed a little before its Paffage over the Meridian, every Minute, if poffible, until its greateft or haft Altitude be had. Now, tho' by this means we have not the true Pofition of the Meridian, yet we have the apparent Meridian Altitude of the Star.

Altho' this Method is very good, and free from any fenfible Error, yet if a Star paries by the Meridian near the Zenith, we cannot have its Meridian Altitude, by repeated Obler- vations every Minute, unlefs by chance ; because in every Minute of an Hour the Altitude aug- ments about fifteen Minutes of a Degree : and in these kind of Obfervations, the inconvenient Situation of the Obfervator, the Variation of the Star's Azimuth several Degrees in a little time, the Alteration that the Inltrument must have, and the Difficulty in well replacing it vertically again, hinders our making of Obfervations oftner than in every fourth Minute of an Hour; during which Time the Difference in the Star's Altitude will be One Degree. Therefore in these Cafes it will be better to have the true Pofition of the Meridian, or the exact Time a Star passes by the Meridian, in order to place tne Inltrument in the laid Me- ridian, or move it so that one may obferve the Altitude of the Star the Moment it pafles by the Meridian.

Of Refractions.

The Meridian Altitudes of two fixed Stars, which are equal, or a small matter different, the one being North, and the other South, being observed, and also their Declination otherwise given •, to find the Refraction anfwering to the Degrees of Altitude of tne said Stars, and the true Height of the Pole, or Equator, above the Place of Obfervation.

Having found the apparent Meridian Altitude of some Star near the Pole (by the afore- going Directions; if the Complement of the said Star's Declination be added thereto, or taken therefrom, we shall have the apparent Height of the Pole. After the fame manner may also the apparent Height of the Equator be found, by means of the Meridian Altitude of some Star near the Equator, in adding or fubftracting its Declination.

Then these Heights of the Pole and Equator being added together, their Sum will al- ways be greater than a Quadrant ; but 90 Degrees being taken from this Sum, the Remainder will be double the Refraction of either of the Stars observed at the fame height : and therefore taking the said Refraction from the said apparent Height of the Pole, or Equator, we fhail have their true Altitude.

Example.

Let the Meridian Altitude of a Star observed below the North Pole, be 30 Deg. 15 Mim and the Complement of its Declination 5 deg. whence the apparent Height of the Pole will be 35 Deg. 15 Min. Also let the apparent Meridian Altitude of some other Star, observed near the Equator, be 30 Deg. 40 Min. and its Declination 40 Deg. 9 Min. whence the appa- rent Height of the Equator will be 54 Deg. 49 Min. Therefore the Sum of the Heights of the Pole and Equator thus found, will be 90 Deg. 4 Min. from which fubftracting.90 Deg. and there remains 4 Min. which is double the Refraction at 30 Deg. 28 Min. of Altitude, which is about the middle between the Heights found : therefore at the Altitude of ^o Deg. 15 Min. the Refraction will be fomething above 2 Min. viz. 2 Min. 1 See. and at the Altitude of 30 Deg. 40 Min. the Refraction will be 1 Min. 59 Sec.

Laftly, If 2 Min. 1 Sec. be taken from the apparent Height of the Pole 25 Min. 15 Sec the Remainder 35 Deg. 12 Min. 59 Sec. will be the true Height of the E J ole; and so the true Height of the Equator will be 54 Deg. 47 Min. 1 Sec. as being the Complement of the Height of the Pole to 90 deg.

Tfote, The Refraction and Height of the Pole found according to this way, will be fo much the more exact, as the Altitude of the Stars is greater -, for if the Difference of the Altitudes of each Star mould be even 2 Deg. when their Altitudes are above 30 Deg. we may by this Method have the Refraction, and the true Height of the Pole, because in this Cafe the Difference of Refraction in Altitudes differing two Degrees, is not fenfible.

Another Way of obferving Refraclions.

The Quantity of Refraction may also be found by the Obfervations of one Star only, whose Meridian Altitude is 90 Deg. or a little less ; for the Height of the Pole or Equator above the Place of Obfervation being otherwise known, we shall have the Star's true De- clination, by it's Meridian Altitude •, because Refractions near the Zenith are infenfibie.

Now if we obferve by a Pendulum the exact Times when the said atar comes to every Degree of Altitude, as also the Time of it's Paffage by the Meridian, which may be known by the equal Altitudes of the Star being East and West, we have three things given in a fpherical Triangle, viz. the Distance between the Pole and Zenith, the Complement of the Star's Declination, and the Angle comprehended by the aforsaid Arcs ; namely, the Diffe- rence of mean Time between the Paffage of the Star by the Meridian and it's Place, con- verted into Degrees and Minutes"-, to which muff, be added, the convenable proportional Part of the mean Motion of the Sun in the Proportion of 59 Min. 8 Sec. per Day : therefore the true Arc of the Vertical Circle between the Zenith and the true Place of the Star may be found.

But the apparent Arc of the Altitude of the Star is had by Obfervation, and the Diffe- rence of these Arcs will be the Quantity of Refraction at the Height of the Star. By a like Calculation the Refraction of every Degree of Altitude may be found.

The fame may be done by means of the Sun, or any other Star, provided it's Declination be known, to the End that at the Time of Obfervation the true Distance of the Sun or Star from the Zenith may be found.

The Refractions of Stars being known, it will then be eafy to find the Height of the Pole ; for having observed the Meridian Altitude of the Polar Star, as well above as below the Pole, the fame Day, and having diminished each Altitude by it's proper Refraction, half of the Difference of the corrected Altitudes, added to the leffer Altitude corrected, or fub- ftracted from the greater Altitude thus corrected, will give the true Height of the Pole.

M. de la Hire has observed with great Care for several Years the Meridian Altitudes of fixed Stars, and principally of Sirius, and Lucida Lyra, with Aflronomical Quadrants very well divided, and very good Telescopes at different Hours of the Day and Night, and at dif- ferent Seaibns of the Year ; and he affures us, that he never found any Difference in the;r Altitudes, but what proceeded from their proper Motion.

And because Sirius comes to about the 26th Degree of the Meridian, we might doubt whether in the leffer Altitudes the Refractions in the Winter would be greater than those in the Summer •, hence he also observed, with the late M. Picard, the leffer Meridian Alti- tudes of the Star Capella, which is about 4 - t Degrees at several different Times of the Year.

Having compared these different Obfervations together, and made the neceffarv Reduc- tions, because of the proper Motion of that Star, there was fcarcely found one Minute of Difference, that could proceed from any other Caufe but Refraction. Therefore he made but one Table of the Refraction of the Sun, Moon, and the Stars, for all Times of the Year, conformable to the Obfervations that he made from them.

Notwithftanding this, one would think that Refractions nigh the Horizon are fubject to divers Inconftancies, according to the Conltitution of the Air, and the Nature of high or low Grounds, as M. de la Hire has often found ; for obferving the Meridian Altitudes of Stars at the Foot of a Mountain, which feemed to be even with the Top of it, they appeared to him a little higher, than if he had observed them at the Top : But if the Obfervations of others may be depended upon, Refractions are greater, even in Summer, in the frozen Zones, than in the temperate Zones.

How to find the Time of the Equinox and Sol/lice by Obfervation.

Having found the Height of the Equator, the Refraction and the Sun's Parallax at the fame Altitude, it will not afterwards be difficult to find the Time in which the Center of the Sun is in the Equator-, for if from the apparent Meridian Altitude of the Center of the Sun, the fame Dav as it comes to the Equinox, be taken the convenient Refraction, and then the Parallax be added thereto, the true Meridian Altitude of the Sun's Center will be had. Now the Difference of this Altitude, and the Height of the Equinoctial, will fhew the Time of the true Equinox before or after Noon : and if the Sum of the Seconds of that Difference be divided by 59, the Quotient will fhew the Hours and Fractions which must be added or fubftracted from the true Hour of Noon, to have the Time of the true Equinox.

The Hours of the Quotient must be added to the Time of Noon, if the Meridian Altitude of the Sun be leffer than the Height of the Equator about the Time of the vernal Equinox -, but they must be fub ft rafted, if it be found greater. You must proceed contrariwife, when the Sun is near the autumnal Equinox.

Example. The true Height 41 Deg. 10 Min. of the Equator being given, and having ob- ferved the true Meridian Altitude 41 Deg. 5 Min. 15 Sec. of the Sun, found by the apparent Altitude of it's upper or lower Limb, corrected by it's Semidiameter, Refraction, and Pa- rallax, and the Difference wili be 4 Min. 45 Sec. or 285 Seconds, which being divided by 59, the Quotient will be 4 ; 9 -, that is, 4 Hours 48 Minutes, which must be added to Noon, if the Sun be in the vernal Equinox, and confequently the Time of the Equinox will happen 4 Hours 48 Minutes after Noon. But if the Sun was in the autumnal Equinox, the Time of the laid Equinox would happen 4 Flours 48 Minutes before Noon, that is, at 12 Minutes pad S'~.'vcn in the Morning.

As to the Solftices, there is much more Difficulty in determining them than the Equi- noxes, lor one Obfervation only is not fufficient •, because about this Time the Difference be- tween the Meridian Altitudes in one Day, and the next fucceeding Day, is almost infen- fible.

Now the exact Meridian Altitude of the Sun must be taken, 12 or 15 Days before the Solftice, and as many after, that so one may find tne fame Meridian Altitude by little and little ; to the End that by the proportional Farts of the alteration of the Sun's Meridian Al- titude, we may more exactly find the Time wherein the Sun is found at the fame Altitude, before and after the Solftice, being in the fame Parallel to the Equator.

Now having found the Time elapfed between both the Situations of the Sun, you must; take half of it, and feek in the Tables the true Place of the Sun at these three Times. This being clone, the Difference of the extreme Places of the Sun must be added to the mean Place, in order to have the mean Place with Comparifon to the Extremes •, but if the mean Place found by Calculation, does not agree with the mean Place found by Comparifon, you aiuft take the Difference, and add to the mean Time, the Time anfwering to that Dif- ference, if the mean Time found by Calculation be lcffer ; but contrariwife, it must be fub- ftrafted if it be greater, in order to have the Time of the Solftice.

Example. The last Day of May, the apparent Meridian Altitude of the Sun was found at the Royal Obfervatory, 64 Dtg. 47 Min. 25 Sec. and the 22d Day of June following, the apparent Meridian Altitude was found 64 Deg. 28 Min. 15 Sec. from whence we know, by having the Difference of Declination at those Times, that the Sun came to the Parallel of the first Obfervation, the 22c! of June, at 4 Hours 12 Minutes in the Morning; and confe- quently the mean Time between the Obfervations, was on the 2 2d of June, at 2 Hours 6 Minutes in the Morning.

Now by Tables, the true Place of the Sun at the Time of the first Obfervation, was 2 Signs 18 Deg. 5S Min. 23 Sec. and at the Time of the last it was 3 Signs, 11 Deg. 4 Min. 52 Sec. and :ii the middle Time 3 Signs, 1 Min. 56 Sec. But the Difference of the two ex- treme Places is 22 Deg. 6 Min. 29 Sec. half of which is 1 1 Deg. 3 Min 15 Sec. which added to the mean Place, makes 3 Signs, 1 Min. 38 Sec. which is the mean Place with comparifon to the Extremes. Again, The Difference between the mean Place, by Calculation 3 Signs, 1 Min. 56 Sec. and the mean Place by Comparifon, is 18 Seconds, which anfwers to 7 Min. 18 Sec. of Time, which must be taken from the mean Time, because the mean Place by Cal- culation is greater than the mean Place by Comparifon. Therefore the Time of the Solftice was the nth of June, at 1 Hour, 58 Min. 18 Sec. in the Morning.

Note, The Error of a few Seconds, in the observed Altitude of the Sun, will caufe an alteration of an Hour in the true Time of the Solftice •, as in the proposed Example, 10 Se- conds, or thereabouts, in Altitude, will caufe an Error of an Hour-, whence the true Time of the Solftice cannot be had but with Instruments well divided, and several very exact Ob- fervations.

Obfervations made in the Royal Obfervatory at Paris, about the Time of the Solftice for finding the Height of the Pole, and the Suns greatefl Declination or Obliquity of the Ecliptick.

Deg. Min. Sec.

The apparent Meridian Altitude of the upper Limb of the Sun at the ^ Time of the Summer Solftice, gathered from several Obfervations, is found - i

Refraction to be fubft rafted -

Parallax to be added - - -

True Altitude of the upper Limb of the Sun -

Semidiameter of the Sun -

True Meridian Altitude of the Sun's Center -

At the Time of the Winter Solftice, the apparent Meridian Altitude of the } „
upper Limb of the Sun - ......

Refraction to be fubftrafted -

Parallax to be added ..._._

True Altitude of the Sun's upper Limb ...

Semidiameter of the Sun _-..,.

Then the true Distance of the Tropicks is - - - 7 - 46 58 7

The half, which is the greateft Declination of the Sun, is - - 23 29 3J.

The Height of the Equator above the Obfervatory - - - 41 09 59'.

Its Complement, which is the Height of the Pole - - - 48 50 00]-

Obfervations of the Polar Star.

By divers Obfervations of the greateft and least apparent Meridian Altitudes of the Polar Star, which is in the end of the Tail of the Little Bear, it is concluded that the apparent Altitude of the Pole, as M. Picardhis denoted it in his Book ot the Dimenfions of the Earth, between St James's and St Martin's Gates (about S. Jaq.ues de la Boucherie, at Paris) is 48 Deg. 52 Min. 20 Sec.

The Reduction being made according to the Distance of the Places, the apparent Height of the Pole at the Royal Obfervatory will be

The Convenable Refraction to that Height _____

Then the true Height of the Pole at the Obfervatory. For which let us take _____---_ And confequently the Height of the Equator will be

The true or apparent Time in which a Planet or fixed Star pajfes by the Meridian, being given, to find the difference of Right Afcenfion between the fixed Star, or Planet, and the Sun.

The given Time from Noon to or from the time of the PafTage of the Star or Planet by the Meridian, must be converted into Degrees, and what is required will be anfwered.

Example. Jupiter pafied by the Meridian at 10 Hours, 23 Min. 15 Sec. in the Morning, whose Distance in time from Noon, which is 1 Hour, 36 Min. 45 Sec. being converted into Degrees of the Equator, will give 24 Deg. 11 Min. 15 Sec. for the Difference of PJght Afcenfion between the Sun and Jupiter, in that Moment the Center of Jupiter pafied by the Meridian.

In this, and the following Problem, we have proposed the true or apparent Time, and not the mean Time; because the true Time is eafur to know by Obfervations of the Sun, than the mean Time. We fliall explain what is meant by mean Time, as likewise true or apparent Time, in the next Chapter.

The true Time between the Paffages of two fixed Stars by the Meridian being given, or else of a fixed Star and a Planet, to find their Afcenfional Difference.

The given Time between their Pafiages by the Meridian must be converted into Degrees of the Equator, and the Right Afcenfion of the true Motion of the Sun anfwering to that time, mull be added thereto ; then the Sum will be the Afcenfional Difference fought.

Example. Suppose between the Pafiages of the Great Tog, called Sirius, by the Meridian, and the Heart of the Lion named Regulus, there is elapfed 3 Hours, 20 Min. of time&gt; and the Right Afcenfion of the true Motion of the Sun, let be 7 Min. ■$$ Sec.

Whence converting 3 Hours, 20 Min. into Degrees of the Equator, and there will be had 50 Deg. to which adding 7 Min. 2,5 Sec. and the Sum 50 Deg. 7 Min. 05 Sec. will be the Afcenfional Difference between Sirius and Regulus.

You must proceed thus for the Afcenfional Difference of a fixed Star and a Planet, or of two Planets ; yet note, if the proper Motion of the Planet or Planets be confiderable be- tween both their Pafiages by the Meridian, regard must be had thereto.

How to obferve Eclipfes.

Amongft the Obfervations of Eclipfes, we have the Beginning, the End, and the Total Emer- fion, which may exactly enough be eftimated by the naked Eye, without Teiefcopes, except the Beginning and the End of Eclipfes of the Moon, where an Error of one or two Minutes may be made, because it is difficult certainly to determine the Extremity of the Shadow. But the Quantity of the Eclipfe, that is, the eclipfed Portion of the Sun and Moon's Disk, which is measured by Digits, or the 12th parts of the Sun and Moon's Diameter, and Mi- nutes, or the 60th parts of Digits, cannot be well known without a Telescope joined to fome Instrument. For an Eftimation made with the naked Eye is very fubject to Error, as it is eafy to fee in the Hiftory of ancient Eclipfes, altho they were observed by very able Astronomers.

The Astronomers who first used Teiefcopes furnifhed with but two Glafies, namely, a Convex Object-Glass, and a Concave Eye-Glass, in the Obfervations of Eclipfes, observed those of the Sun in the following manner. They caused a hole to be made in the Window- fhutter of a Room, which Room in the Day-time, when the Shutters were fluit, was darkened thereby ; thro' which Hole they put the Tube of a Telescope, in such manner, that the Rays of the Sun, passing thorough the Tube, might be received upon a white piece of Paper, or a Table-Cloth, upon which was first defcribed a Circle of a convenable bi^nefs, with five other Concentric Circles, equally distant from one another, which, with the Center, divided a Diameter of the outward Circle into 12 equal Parts. Then having ati jutted the Table-Cloth perpendicular to the Situation of the Tube of the Telescope, the lu- minous Image of the Sun was caft upon the Table-Cloth, which would full be greater ac- cording as the Table-Cloth was more distant from the Eye-Glass of the Telescope •, whence by moving the Tube forwards and backwards, they found a Place where the Image of the Sun appeared exactly equal to the outward Circle, and at that Distance they fixed the Table- Cloth, with the Tube of the Telescope, which compofed the Instrument for the said Ob- fervation. Afterwards they moved the Tube according to the Sun's Motion, to the End that the luminous Limb of it's Pifk might every where touch the outward Circle defcribed upon the Table-Cloth, by which means the Quantity of the eclipfed Portion was feen, and it's created: Obfcurity measured by the Concentric Circles j they denoted the Hour of every Phafe, by a Second Pendulum Clock, rectified and prepared for that purpofe. The fame Method is ftill observed by many Astronomers, who use also a Circular Reticulum, made with fix Concentric Circles upon very fine Paper, which mull be oiled, to rencer the Sun's linage more feniible. The greateft of the Circles ought exactly to contain the Image of the Sun in the Focus of the Object-Glass of a Telescope of 40 or 60 Feet; the fix Circles are equally distant, and divide the Diameter of the Sun in twelve equal digits. When the Faper is placed in the Focus of a great Telescope, the enlightened part of the Sun will very di- ftinctly be feen •, then the Eye-Glass is not used.

There are others who use a Telescope furnifhed with two Convex-Glafles, from whence the fame Effect; follows. But altho' the Use of a Telescope in this manner be very proper to obferve Eclipfes of the Sun, yet it is not fit to obferve Eclipfcs of the Moon, becaufc it's Li ff ht is not strong enough. Laftly, Others place a Micrometer in the common Focus of the Convex Lenses. Besides the Quantity of the Phafes of the Eclipfes of the- Sun and Moon (eafily known by the said Micrometer), we may have the Diameters of the Luminaries, and the Proportion of the Earth's Diameter to the Moon's, as well by the obfcure Protion of it's Disk, as by the luminous Portion and the Distance between it's Horns.

The Method of obferving Eclipfes by means of the Micrometer will be much better, if the Divisions to which the parallel Hairs are applied be made fo, that ;'.x Int :vals of the Hairs, may contain the Diameter of the Sun or Moon. For the moveable Hair pofited in the Middle of the Distance between the immoveable ones (which is not difficult to do), will fhew the Digits of the Eclipfe.

The fame Telescope and Micrometer may ferve for all the other Obfervations, and to measure Eclipfes •, as, to obferve the Paffage of the Earth's Shadow over the Spots of the Moon, in Lunar Eclipfes.

There yet remains one confiderable Difficulty, and that is, to make a new Division. of the Micrometer ferving as a common Reticulum for all Obfervations •, for it fcarcely hap- pens in an Age in two Eclipfes, that the apparent Diameters of the Sun and Moon are the fame.

Therefore M. de la Hire has invented a new Reticulum, which having all the Uses of the Micrometer, may fer/e to obferve all Eclipfes, it being adapted to all apparent Diameters of the Sun and Moon, and it's Divisions are firm and solid enough to refift all the Viciflltudes of the Air, altho' they are as fine as Hairs.

The Conftruction and Use of this Reticulum is thus : First, Take two Object Lenses of Telescopes of the fame Focus, or nighly the fame, which join together. As for Example, The Focus of two Lenses together of eight Feet, which is the fit Length of a Telescope for obferving Eclipfes, unlefs the Beginning and the End of Solar ones, which require a longer Telescope exactly to determine them.

Secondly, We find from Tables, that the greateft Diameter of the Moon at the Altitude of 90 Deg. is 34 Min. 6 Sec. To which adding 10 Sec. and there will arife 34 Min. 16 Sec. Therefore fay, As Radius is to the Tangent of 17 Min. 8 Sec. (the half of 34 Min. 16 Sec.) So is 8 Feet, or the focal Length of the two Lenses to the Parts of a Foot, which dou- bled will fubtend an Angle of 34 Min. 16 Sec. in the Focus of the Telescope, and this will be the Diameter of the said Circular Reticulum.

Thirdly, Upon a very flat, clear, and well polifhed Piece of Glass, defcribe lightly with the Point of a Diamond, faftened to one of the Legs of a Pair of Compalfes, fix Concentric Circles, equally distant from each other. The Semidiameter of the greateft and last let be equal to the fourth Term before found. Likewise draw two Diameters to the greateft Circic at Right Angles. The fiat Piece of Glass being thus prepared and put into the Tube, of which we have before fpoken, and in the Focus of the Telescope, will be a very proper Reticulum for obferving Solar and Lunar Eclipfes, and it will divide all the apparent Dia- meters into twelve equal Parts or Digits, as we are now going to explain.

It is manifefl: from Dioptricks, that all Rays coming from Points of a distant Object:, after their Refraction by t\v*o convex Lenses, either joined or ibmething distant from each other, will be painted in the common Focus of the said Lenses, which mil appear so much the greater, according as the Lenses be distant from one another ; 10 that they will appear the fmallelt when the Lenses are joined together. Therefore if the Objecl-Glafles used in this Conftruction, be each put into a Tube, and one of these Tubes Aides within the other; then the said Lenses being thus joined, the Image of adistant Object, whose Rays fall upon the Lenses under an Angle of 34 Min. 16 Sec. will exceed the Moon's greateft apparent Diameter by 10 Sec. Therefore in moving the Lenses by little and little, such a Pofition may be found, wherein the Diameter of the greateft Circle on the Reticulum pofited in the Fo- cus, will anfwer to an Angle of 34 Min. 16 Sec. For the Image ot an Object perceived under a less Angle, may be equal to the Image of the fame Object perceived under a greater Angle, according to the different Lengths of the Foci. But the Reticulum is in a feparate Tube, and so it may be removed at a Distance at pleafure from the Object-Glasses. We now proceed to lay down two different Ways of finding the Pofitions of [the Lenies and Reticulum, proper to receive the different Diameters of the Sun and Moon.

First, In a very level and proper Place for making Obfervations with GlafTes, place a Board, with a Sheet of Paper thereon, directly expofed to the Tube's Length, having two black Lines drawn upon it parallel to each other, and at such a Distance trom each other, that it fubtends an Angle of 34 Min. 6 Sec. so that the Distance of the said two Lines, reprefented iu the Focus of the Object-GlafTts, may likewise fubtend an Angle of 34 Min. 6 Sec. And this may be found in reasoning thus, (as we have already done for the Micro- meter). As Radius is to the Tangent of 17 Min. 3 Sec. So is the Distance from the Tube of the Object-Glasses to the Broad, To half the Distance that the parallel Lines on the Paper must be at. And thus we mail find by Experience the Place of each Object-Glass, and the Reticulum in the common Focus, in such manner that the Reprefentation of the two black Lines on the Paper, embraces entirely the Diameter of the greateft Circle of the said Reticulum. Now we fet down 34 Min. 6 Sec. upon the Tubes, in each Pofition of the Lenses and their Foci, or the Reticulum, that so the Lenses and Reticulum may be adjufted to their exact Distance, every time an Angle of 34 Deg. 6 Min. is made use of.

Again, Let the said Board and white Paper be placed further from the Tube, in such manner, that the Distance between the parallel Lines on the Paper fubtend, or is the Base of an Angle of 33 Min. for example, whose Vertex is at the Lenses of the Telescope : which may be done, in faying, As the Targent of 16 Min. 30 Sec. is to Radius •, So is half the Interval of the parallel Lines on the Paper, To the Distance of the Board from the Lenses. Now in this Pofition of the Telescope and Board, the Pofition of the Lenses and Reticulum between themfelves must be found ; so that the Reprefentation of the parallel Lines, which appear very diftinctly in the Focus of the Lenses, occupies the whole Diameter of the greateft Circle on the Reticulum. This being done, the Number ^3 Min. must be made upon the Tubes, in the Places wherein each of the Lenses and Reticulum ought to be. Pro- ceed in this manner for the Angles of 32 Min. 31 Min. 30 Min. and 29 Min.

If the Distances, denoted upon the Tubes between the different Pofitions of the Lenses and the Reticulum, anfwering to a Minute, be divided into 60 equal Parts, we shall have their Pofitions for every Second ; and by this means the fame Circle of the Reticulum may be accommodated to all the different apparent Diameters of the Sun and Moon, and the Diameter of the greateft Circle being divided into 12 equal Parts, it will ferve to measure the Quantities of all folar and lunar Eclipfes.

The second Method taken from Opticks, being not founded upon so great a Number of Experiments as the former, may perhaps appear eafier to some Perfons •, for the Foci of both the Lenses being known, fay, As the Sum of the focal Lengths of the Lenses (whether they be equal or not) less the Distance between the Lenses, is to the focal Length of the out- ward Lense, less the Distance between the Lenses ; So is this fame Term, to a fourth, which being taken from the focal Length of the outward Lens, there remains the Distance from the outward Lens, to the common Focus of the Lenses, which is the Place of the Reticulum.

The Pofition of the common Focus of the Lenses may also be known by this Method;- when they be joined, in using the aforsaid Analogy, without having any regard to the Di- ftance between the Lenses. which is computed from the Places of the Lenses Centers ; therefore in fuppofmg several different Distances between the Object-Lenses, the Length of their Foci will he had, that is, the Place of the Reticulum, correfpondent to each Di- ftance.

Again, fay, As the known focal Length is to the Semidiameter of the Reticulum, be it what it will •, So is Radius, to the Tangent of the Angle anfwering to the Semidiameter of the Reticulum. By this Method we may likewise have the Magnitude of the said Reticu- lum, in faying, As Radius is to the Tangent of an Angle of 17 Min. 3 Sec. So is the focal Length of the Lenses, to the Semidiameter of the outward concentnek Circle. Having thus found the Minutes and Seconds fubtended by the Diameter of the greateft Circle of the Reticulum, according to the different Intervals of the Lenses, they must be wrote upon each Tube of the Lenses and Reticulum, and the Distances between the Terms found, di- vided into Seconds, as is mentioned in the former Method. And thus may the Pofitions of the Lenses and Reticulum be foon found, which shall contain the apparent Diameters of the Sun or Moon, according as they appear. If it be found very difficult to draw exactly the concentrick Circles upon the Piece of Glass, you need but draw thirteen right Lines there- on with the Point of a Diamond, equally distant and parallel to each other, with another rip-he Line perpendicular to them ; but the Length of this Perpendicular between the two extreme Parallels, mud be equal to the Diameter of the Reticulum, found in the manner aforsaid. This Reticulum may be used inftead of one compofed of Hairs.

A plain thin Piece of Glass, having Lines drawn thereon with a very fine Point of a Dia- mond, may likewise be used in an Aftronomical Telescope, &c. for if it be adjufted in its proper Frame, in the manner as is directed in the Micrometer, the Lines drawn thtreon may be used inftead of the parallel Hairs. I am of opinion, that the aforsaid Reticula are very useful in practical Aftronomy, they not being fubject to the Inconftancies of the Air, of being gnawed by Infects, Or to the Motions of the Instrument, which the Hairs are.

There are those who prefer Hairs, to Lines drawn upon a Piece of Glass, whose Surface may caufe some Obfcurity to the Objects, or if it be not very flat, there may some Error arife: but if they have a mind to avoid these Difficulties, which are of no confequence, as we know by Experience, they may use ftraight Glass-Threads, inftead of Hairs : for fome of these may be procured as fine as Hairs, and of Strength enough to refift the Incon- ftancies of the Air.

Although the Phafes or Appearances of the Eclipfes of the Moon, apply'd by Astronomers to Aftronomical and Geographical Uses, may be observed much eafier and exacter by our Reticulum, than by the ancient Methods ; yet it must be acknowledged, that the Immerfions into, and Emerfions of the Moon's Spots out of the Earth's Shadow, may more conve- niently be observed, because of their great Number, than the Phafes, and that there is less Preparation is using a Telescope, which need be only fix Feet in length : and in order for this, a Map of the Moon's Disk, when it is at the full, must be procured, wherein are denoted the proper Names of the Spots, and principal Places appearing on its Disk. This may be found in the reformed Aftronomy of R. P. Riccioli^ &c.

There are great Advantages arifing from Obfervations of Eclipfes, for if the exact Time of the Beginning of an Eclipfe of the Moon, of it's total Immerfion in the Shadow, of it's Emerfion and it's End, as likewise of the Paffage of the Earth's Shadow by the Spots on it's Surface, be observed, we shall have the Difference of Longitude of the two Places wherein the Obfervations are made; this is known to all Astronomers. But since Lunar Eclipfes feldom happen, so as that the Difference of Longitude may thereby be concluded, the Eclipfes of Jupiter *s Satellites may be observed inftead of them ; but principally of the first, whose Motion about Jupiter being very fwift, one may make several Obfervations thereof during the Space of one Year ; and from thence the Difference of Longitude of the two Places, wherein the said Obfervations are made, may be had.

Neverthelefs you must take notice, that Lunar Eclipfes may much eafier be observed, than the Eclipfes of Jupiter's Satellites, which cannot be eafily and exactly done without a Telescope of twelve Feet in length •, whereas the Phafes of the Beginning or End, or of the Immerfion and Emerfion of Lunar Eclipfes, may be observed without a Telescope, and the Immerfions and Emerfions of its Spots with one of an indifferent length.

M. Caffmi, a very excellent Astronomer of the Academy of Sciences, publifhed in the Year 1693, exact T-.bles of the Motions of Jupiter's Satellites ; therefore in comparing the Times of the Immerfion or Emerfion of Jupiter's first Satellite, found by the Tables fitted for the Obfervatory (at Paris) with the Obfervations thereof made in any other PJace, we shall have, by the Difference of Time, the Difference of Longitude of the Obfervatory, and the Place wherein the Obfervations were made : which may be confirmed in obferving the fame Phsenomena in both Places.

It is proper here to inform Obfervators of one Cafe, which often hinders an exact Ob- fervation of Jupiter's Satellites; which is, that in a ferene Night, we often find the Light of Jupiter and its Satellites, observed thro' the Telescope, to diminish by little and little, so that it is impoffible to determine exactly the true Times of the Immerfion and Emerfion of the Satellites. Now the Caufe of this Accident proceeds from the Object-Glass of the Telescope, which is covered over with Dew, and thereby a great Number of Rays of Light, coming from Jupiter and its Satellites, is hinder'd from coming thro' the Object- Glass to the Eye. A very fure Remedy for this, is, to make a Tube of blotting Paper; that is, a Tube about two Feet long, and big enough to go about the End of the Tube of the Telescope next to the Object-Glass, must be made, in rolling two or three Sheets of finking Paper upon each other. This Tube being adjufted about the Tube of the Te- lefcope, will fuck in or drink up the Dew, and hinder its coming to the Object-Glass -, and by this Means v/e may make our Obfervations conveniently.

Of the ConftruElion and Use of an Inflrument J&gt; hewing the Eclipfes of the Sun and Moon, the Months a?id Lunar Tears y as also the EpaSis.

Fig- 13. PT"* H I S Inflrument was invented by M. de la Hire, and is compofed of three round

J[ Plates of Brass, or Pieces of Pafte-board, and an Index which turns about a common Center upon the Face of the upper Plate, which is the least. There are two circular Bands, the one blue, and the other white, in which are made little round Holes ; the out- ward of which fhews the New Moons, and the Image of the Sun ; and the inward ones, the Full Moons, and the Image of the Moon. The*. Limb of this Plate is divided into 12 lunar Months, each containing 29 Days, 12 Hours, 44 Minutes •, but in such manner, that the End of the 12th Month, which makes the Beginning of the second lunar Year, may furpass the first New Moon by the Quantity of 4 of 1 yy Divisions s denoted upon the middle Plate.

Upon the Limb of this Plate is faftened an Index, one of whose Sides, which is in the fiducial Line, makes part of a right Line, tending to the Cente'r of the Inflrument ; which Line alfb pafTes thro' the Middle of one of the outward'Holes, fhewing the first New Moon of the lunar Year. Note, The Diameter of the Holes is equal to the Extent of about 4 Degrees.

The Limb of the second Plate is divided into 1 79 equal Parts, ferving for so many lunar Years, each of which is 354. Days, and about 9 Hours. The first Year begins at the Num- ber 179, at which the last ends.

The Years accomplifhed are each denoted by their Numbers 1,2, 3, 4, &c. at every fourth Division, and which make four times a Revolution to compleat the Number 179, as may be feen in the Figure of this Plate. Each of the lunar Years comprehend four of the afore- said Divisions : So that in this Figure they anticipate one upon the other four of the said 179 Di virions of the Limb.

Upon the Limb of the fame Plate, under the Holes of the first, there is a Space coloured black, anfwering to the outward Holes, and which fhews the Eclipfes of the Sun, and an- other red Space, anfwering to the innermost Holes, fhewing the Eclipfes of the Moon. The Quantity of each Colour appearing through the Holes, fhews the Eignefs of the Eclipfe. The Middle of the two Colours, which is the Middle of the Moon's Node, anfwers on one Side to the Division marked 4 * of a Degree ; and on the other Side it anfwers to the opposite Number.

The Figure of the coloured Space is fhewn upon this second Plate, and it's Amplitude or Extent fhews the Limits of Eclipfes.

The third and greateft Plate, which is underneath the others, contains the Days and Months of common Years. The Divisions begin at the first Day of March, to the End that a Day may be added to the Month of February, when the Year is Bijfextile. The Days of the Year are defcribed in form of a Spiral, and the Month of February goes out beyond the Month of March, because the lunar Year is fhorter than the folar one; so that the 15th Hour of the 10th Day of February anfwers to the Beginning of March : But after having reckoned the last Day of February, you must go back again to have the first of March. T fie re are thirty Days marked before the Month of March, which ferve to find the Epacts.

Note, That the Days, as they are here taken, are not accomplifhed purfuant to the Use of Astronomers, but as they are vulgarly reckoned, beginning on a Minute, and ending at the Minute of the following Day. Therefore every time that the first Day, or any other of a Month is fpoken of, we underftand the Space of that Day marked in the Divisions ; for we here reckon the current Days according to vulgar Use.

In the Middle of the upper Plate are wrote the Epochs, fhewing the Beginning of the lunar Years, with refptct to the folar Years, according to the Gregorian Calendar, and for the Meridian of Paris. The Beginning of the first Year, which must be denoted by o, and anfwers to the Division 179, happened in the Year 1680 at Paris, the 29th of February at 14 ! Hours. The End of the first lunar Year, being the Beginning of the second, anfwers to rhe Division marked 1, which happened at Paris in the Year 1681, the 27th of February, at 23 ! Hours, in counting fucceflivcly 24 Hours from one Minute to the other. And left there fhould be an Error in comparing the Divisions of the Limb of the second Plate with the Divisions of the Epochs of the lunar Years anfwering them, we have put the fame Numbers r.o them both.

We have fet down fucccflively the Epochs of all the lunar Years, from the Year 1700 trJ the Year 1750, to the End that the Use of this Instrument may more cafily ferve to make each of the aforsaid folar and lunar Years agree together. As to the other Years of our Cycle of 179 Years, it will be eafy to render it compleat, in adding 354 Days, 8 Hours* 48 '■ Minutes for each lunar Year.

The Index extending itfelf from the Center of the Instrument to the Limb of the greateft Plate, ferves to compare the Divisions of one Plate with those of the two others. And if this Instrument be applied to a Clock, a perfect and accomplifhed Instrument in all it's Parts will be had.

The Table of Epochs, which is fitted for the Meridian of Paris, may eafily be reduced to other Meridians ; if for the Places eaftward of Paris, the Time of the Difference of Meri- dians be added ; and for Places weft ward, the Time of the Difference of Meridians be fubftracted.

It is proper to place the Table of Epochs in the Middle of the upper Plate, to the End that it may be feen with the Instrument.

How to make the , Divisions upon the Plates.

The Circle of the greateft Plate is so divided, that 368 Deg. 2 Min. 42 Sec. may compre- hend 354 Days, and fomething less than 9 Hours j from whence it is manifest, that the Circle mult contain 346 Days, 15 Hours, which may without fenfible Error be taken for ~ of a Day. Now to divide a Circle into 346 2 equal Parts, reduce the whole into third Parts, which in this Example make 1040 ; then feek the greateft Multiple of 3 less than 1040, which may be halved. Such a Number will be found in a double Geometrical Progrefiionj whose first Term is 3 ; as for Example, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, 96, 192, 384, 768.

Now the 9th Number of this Progreffion is the Number fought. Then fubftract 768 from 1040, there will remain 272, and find how many Degrees, Minutes, and Seconds, this remaining Number makes ; by faying, As 1040 is to 360 Deg. So is 272 to 94 Deg. 9 Min. 23 Sec.

Therefore take an Angle of 94 Deg. 9 Min. 23 Sec. from the said Circle, and divide the remaining Part of the Circle always into half* after having made 8 Subdivifions, you will come to the Number 3, which will be the Arc of one Day ; by which likewile dividing the Arc of 94 Deg. 9 Min. 23 Sec. the whole Circle will be found divided into 3464 Days; for there will be 256 Days in the greateft Arc, and 90 I Days in the other. Each of these Spaces anfwer to 1 Deg. 2 Min. 18 Sec. as may be feen in dividing 360 by 346 4&gt; ar &gt;d ten Days make 10 Deg. 23 Min. And thus a Table may be made, ferving to divide the Plate.

Those Days are afterwards diftributed to each of the Months of the Year, according to the Number correfponding to them, in beginning at the Month of March, and continuing on to the 15th Hour of the 10th of February, which anfwers to the Beginning of March, and the other Days of the Month of February go on farther above March.

The Circle of the Second Plate mult be divided into 179 equal Parts ; to do which, feek the greateft Number which may be continually bifected to Unity, and be contained exactly in 179 : you will find 128 to be this Number, which take from 179, and there remains 51. Now find what part of the Circumference of the Circle the said Remainder makes •, in fay- ing, As 179 Parts is to 360 Deg. So is 51 Parts to 102 Deg. 34 Min. 11 Sec.

Therefore having taken from the Circle an Arc of 102 Deg. 34 Min. 11 Sec. divide the remaining Part of the Circle always into half; and after having made seven Subdivifions, you will come to Unity: whence this part of the Circle* will be divided into 128 equal Parts ; and then the remaining 51 Parts may be divided, by iielp of the last Opening of the Com- passes. Wherefore the whole Circumference will be found divided into 179 equal Parts* every of which anfwers to 2 Deg. 40 Sec. as may be feen in dividing 360 by 179.

Laftly, To divide the Circle of the upper Plate, take one fourth of it's Circumference, and add to it one of the 179 Parts or Divisions of the Limb of the middle Plate •, the Com- panies opened to the Extent of the Quadrant thus augmented, being turned four Times over, will divide the Circle in the Manner as it ought to be : for in fubdividing every of the Quar- ters into three equal Parts, one will have twelve Spaces for the twelve Lunar Months, in such manner, that the End of the 12th Month, which makes the Beginning of the Lunar Year, exceeds the first New Moon by 4 of the 179 Divisions, marked upon the middle Plate.

Use of this Instrument.

A Lunar Year being proposed, to find the Days of the Solar Year correfponding to it, in which the New and Full Moons, together with the Eclipfes, ought to happen.

For Example ; Let the 24th Lunar Year of the Table of Epochs be proposed, which an- fwers to the Division 24 of the middle Plate. Fix the Fiducial Line of the Index on the Upper Plate, over the Division marked 24, in the middle Plate, wherein the Beginning of the 25th Lunar Year is •, and feeing by the Table of Epochs, that that Beginning tails upon the 14th Day of June, of the Year 1703, at 9 Hours, 52 Minutes, turn the two upper

Plates together, in the Pofition they are in, till the Fiducial Line of the Index, fattened to the upper Plate, anfwers to the ioth Hour, or thereabouts, of the 4th of June, denoted upon the undermost Plate ; at which time, the first New Moon of the propoied Lunar Year hap- pens : for then the Fiducial Line passes thro' the middle' of the Hole of the first New Moon of the said Lunar Year.

Afterwards, without changing the Situation of the three Plates, extend a Thread from the Center of the Instrument, or the moveable Index, making it pass thro' the middle of the Hole of the first Full Moon •, and the Fiducial Line will anfv/er to the beginning of the 29th Day of June, at 4 Hours and a Quarter •, which is the time that that Full Moon was totally eclipfed, as appears by the red Colour quite filling the Hole, fhewing the Full Moon.

By the fame means we may know, that at the time of the Full Moon, which happened about the third Hour in the Morning, of the 14th of July, there was a partial Eclipfe of the Sun.

If we proceed farther, the Eclipfes may be known which happened in the Month of December, in the Year 1703, and towards the beginning of the following Year. But because the ioth New Moon goes out beyond the 28th Day ot February, having brought the Index to the 28th Day of February, move the two upper Plates backwards, conjointly with the Index (in the Pofture they are found in) until the Fiducial Line happens over the be- ginning of March -, whence moving the Index over all the Holes of the New and Full Moons, and the last Plate will fhew the times in which the Eclipfes ought to happen.

But because the 13th New Moon is the first of the fucceeding Lunar Year, which an- fwers to the Number 25 of the Divisions of the middle Plate, leave the two undermost Plates in the pofture they are found, and move forwards the upper Plate 'till the Fiducial Line meets with the Number 25 of the middle Plate, at which Point it will fhew upon the greateft Plate, the first New Moon of the 26th Lunar Year, according to the order of our Epoch, which happened the 2d Day of June, 18 Hours 40 Minutes of the Year 1704; and afterwards moving the Index over the middle of the Holes of the New and Full Moons, it ■will fhew upon the last Plate the Days they happened on, as well as the Eclipfes to the End of February : after which, the fame Operation must be made for the preceding Year, that is, that after having come to the last Day of February, you must proceed backwards to the first Day of March.

We might likewise find the Beginnings of all the Lunar Years without using the Table of Epochs •, but since it is not poffible to adjuft the Plates and the Index so exactly one upon another, as that some Error may not happen, which will augment itfelf from Year to Year, the said Table of Epochs will ferve to rectify the Use of this Instrument.

In placing the Fiducial Line of the Index upon the Moon's Age, between the Days of the Lunar Months, denoted upon the Limb of the upper Plate, the correfpondent Days of the common Months will be fhewn, and the Flours nearly, upon the Limb of the lower Plate.

Note, That the Calculations of the Table of Epochs are made for the mean Time of the Full Moons, which supposes the Motions of the Sun and Moon always equable ; from whence there will be found some Difference between the apparent Times of the New Moons, Full Moons, and Eclipfes, as they appear from the Earth, and the times found by that Table.

The proper Motions of the Sun and Moon, as well as those of the other Planets, appear to us fometimes fwift, and fometimes flow ; which apparent Inequality in part proceeds from their Orbits being not concentric with the Earth, and in part from hence, that the equal Arcs of the Ecliptick, which are oblique to the Equator, do not always pass thro' the Me- ridian with the equal Parts of the Equator. Astronomers, for the eafe of Calculation, have fitted a Motion which they call mean or equable, in supposing the Planets to defcribe equal Arcs of their Orbits, in equal Times. That Time which they call true or apparent, is the measure of true or apparent Motion, and mean Time is the measure of mean Motion. They have likewise invented Rules for reducing mean Time to true or apparent Time, and contrariwife, for reducing true or apparent Time to mean Time.

To find by Calculation whether there will happen an Eclipfe at the time of the New or Full Moon.

For an Eclipfe of the Sun, multiply by 7361, the Number of Lunar Months accom- plifhed from that which begun the 8th of January, 1701, according to the Gregorian Calendar, to that which you examine, and add to the Product the Number 33890 •, then divide the Sum by 43200 ; and after the Division, without having regard to the Quotient, examine the Remainder, or the difference between the Divisor and the Remainder : for if either of them be less then 4060, there will happen an Eclipfe of the Sun.

But to find an Eclipfe of the Moon, likewise multiply by 7361, the Number of Lunar Months, accomplifhed from that which begun the 8th of January, 1701, to the New Moon preceding the Full Moon examined •, add to the Product 37326, and divide the Sum by 43200. The Division being made, if the Remainder, or the difference between the Remainder and the Divisor, be less than 2800, there will be an Eclipfe of the Moon,

Note. An Eclipfe of the Sun or Moon will be so much the greater, as the Remainder or

Difference is lefTer ; and contrariwife.

Example of an Eclipfe of the Sun.

It is required to find, whether at the New Moon of the 22d of May, in the Year 1705* there happened an Eclipfe of the Sun.

From the 8th of January? 1701. to the 22d of May, 1705, there were accomplilhed 54 Lunations. Multiply, according to the Rule, the Number 54 by 7361, and add to the Product 33890: the Sum being divided by 43200, there will remain 42584* which is greater than 4060 ; and the Difference between the Remainder 42584, and the Divisor 43200, is 616, which is less than 4060 : therefore there was then an Eclipfe of the Sun.

Example of an Eclipfe of the Moon.

It is required to find whether the Full Moon of the 27th of April, in the Year 1706, was cclipfed.

From the 8th of January, in the Year 1701, to the New Moon preceding the Full Moon in queftion, there were 65 Lunar Months accomplished ; therefore having multiplied, accord- ing to the Rule, the Number 65 by 7361, and added to the Product ^^26, the Sum will be 5 1 579 1 ; which being divided by 43200, without having any regard to the Quotient, the Remainder will be 40591, greater than 2800. The Difference between the Divisor and the Remainder is 609, which is less than 2800 ; therefore there was an Eclipfe of the Moon the 27th day of April, 1 706.

CHAP. V.

The Defcriptiofi of a Second-Pe?tdulu7n-Clock for Agronomical

Obfervations.

THE Figure here adjoined, fhews the Composition of a Second-Pendulum-Clock, pf a te ij] whose two Plates A A and BB, are about half a Foot long, and two Inches and a Fig. 1. half broad, having four little Pillars at the four Corners, that so they may be an Inch and a half distant from each other. Thefe Plates ferve to fuftain the Axes of the principal Wheels, the first of which being the loweft, and figured C C, hath 80 Teeth. The Axis of this Wheel hath a little Pulley, having several Iron Points D D round about the fame, in order to hold the Cord to which the Weights are hung, in the manner as we shall ex- plain by and by. The Wheel C C, being turned by the Weight, likewise turns the Pinion, E of eight Teeth, end so moves the Wheel F, which is faftened to the Axis of the Pinion E •, this Wheel hath forty-eight Teeth, which falling into the Teeth of the Pinion G, whose Number is eight, moves the Wheel H, (made in figure of a Crown) confiding of forty- eight Teeth. Again, The Teeth of this last Wheel fall into the Teeth of the Pinion I, whose Number is twenty-four, and the Axis thereof being upright, carries the Wheel K of 15 Teeth, which are made in Figure of a Saw: Over this Wheel is a crofs Axis, having two Palats L L, fuftained by the Tenons N, Qjmd P, which are faftened to the Plate B B. It rnuft be observed, that as to the Tenons N and Q, the lower part Q^ appearing, hath a great Hole drilled therein, that the Axis LM may pass thro' it ; this part Q, which is faftened to the lower part of the Tenon N, likewise holds the Wheel K, and the Pinion I. There is a great Opening in the Plate BB, in order for the Axis and the Palats to go out be- yond it. One end of this Axis (as I have already mentioned) goes into the Tenon, P, and so moves eafier than if it was fuftained by the Plate B B, and then go out be- yond the said Plate, which it must neceffarily do, that so the little Stern S, fixed thereto, may freely vibrate with the said Axis, and the Teeth of the Wheel K alternately meet the Palats LL, as in common Clocks.

The lower part of the little Stern S is bent, and a flit made therein, thro' which goes an Iron-Rod, ferving as a Pendulum, having the Lead X at the End thereof. This Rod is faftened in V to a very thin Piece of Brass or Steel, which vibrates between two cycloidal Cheeks TT, (one of which is feen in Fig. 1, and both in Fig. 2.) of which more hereafter.

It is eafy to perceive in what manner this Clock goes by the Force of the Wheels car- ried round by the Weight: for the Motion is continued by the Pendulum V X, when the said Pendulum is fct a-going ; because the little Stern S, altho' very light, being in moti- on, not only goes with the Pendulum, but likewise by its Vibrations ftill affifts the Mo- tion some small matter, and ib renders it perpetual, which otherwise by Friction and the Air's refiftance, would come to nothing. But because the Property of the Pendulum is to move equably always, provided its length be the fame, the said Pendulum will caufe the Wheel K to go neither too faft nor too flow, (as happens to Clocks not having Pendulums) every Tooth is Obliged to move equably ; therefore the other Wheels, and the Hands of the Dial-plate, are necefiarily constrained to perform their Revolutions equably. Whence if there mould be some Delault in the Conftruction of the Clock, or if the Axes of the Wheels do not move freely on account of the Intemperance of the Air, provided the Clock does not ftand ftill ; we have nothing to fear from these Inequalities, for the Clock will always go true.

As to the Hands for fhewing the Hours, Minutes, and Seconds, we difpofe them in the following manner. The third Plate Y Y is parallel to the two precedent ones, and is three Lines distant from A A. We defcribe a Circle about the Center a, which is the middle of the Axis, carrying the Wheel C, continued out beyond the Plate A A. This Circle is divided into 12 equal Parts, for the Hours. We likewise defcribe another Circle about the said Center, and divide it into 60 equal Parts, for the Minutes in an Hour. We place the Wheel b upon the Axis R, continued out beyond the Plate A A, faftened to a little Tube, going out beyond the Plate Y Y to e. This Tube is put about the Axis R, and turns about with it, in such manner neverthelefs, that it may be turned only when there is neceffity. We place the Hand fhewing the Minutes in e, which makes one Revolution in an Hour. The beforementioncd Wheel b moves the Wheel h, having the fame Number of Teeth as that, viz. 30 ; and the Teeth of the Wheel/, falls into the Teeth of the Pinion h, whose Number is 6, and they have a little Axis common to them, which is partly fuftained by the Tenon d. This Pinion moves round the Wheel /, having 72 Teeth, faftened to a little 'Tube g, which is put about the Tube carrying the Wheel b. Now the Hand fhew- ing the Hours mu ft be placed upon the Extremity of the Tube^, and will be fhorter than that denoting the Minutes. But that one may not be deceived in reckoning of Seconds, we place a round Plate m m upon the Extremity of the Axis of the Wheel H, divided in- to 60 equal Parts, and make an opening Z in the Plate Y, in the upper Part of which Open- ing is a small Point 0, which, as the said Plate turns about, fhews the Seconds. The Dif- pofition of the Hands and Circles will be eafier feen in Figure 3, which reprefents the Outfide of the Clock.

Now having fpoken of the Difpofition of the Wheels, the next thing is to determine the Length of the Pendulum, which must be such, that every of its Vibrations be made in a Second of Time. This Length must be 3 Feet 8 4 Lines (of Paris *) from the Point of Sufpenfion, which is the Center of the cycloidal Cheeks, to the Center of the Weight X.

We now proceed to fay fomething concerning the Times of the Revolutions of the Wheels and the Hands, in order to confirm what we have already said of the Number of Teeth. Now one Revolution of the Wheel CC, makes ten Revolutions of the Wheel F, fixty of the Wheel H, and one hundred and twenty of the upper Wheel K, which having 15 Teeth, and alternately pufhing the Palats L L, makes thirty Vibrations, which are fo many goings and comings of the Pendulum VX. Whence 120 Revolutions of the Wheel K, is equal to 3600 Vibrations of the Pendulum, which are the Seconds contained in one Hour ; and so the Wheel C makes one Revolution in an Hour, and the Hand e faftened thereto, mews the Minutes ; and because the Wheel b makes it's Revolution in the fame time, (viz. an Hour) the Wheel h hath the fame Number of Teeth as b, and the Pinion on the fame Axis hath fix Teeth j and since the Number of Teeth of the Wheel/ is twelve times greater, the said Wheel will go round once in 12 Hours, as likewise the Hand g faftened thereto. Finally, Because the Wheel H is making fixty Revolutions in the fame time the Wheel CC is making one, therefore the circular Plate Z, having the Seconds deno- ted thereon, will move once round in a Minute ; and so every 60th part of the said Plate will fhew one Second.

The Weight X, at the end of the Pendulum, must weigh about 3 Pounds, and be of Lead covered with Brass. Regard must not only be had to its Weight, but likewise to its Figure, which is of Confequence, because the least Refiftance of the Air is prejudicial thereto j whence We make it in form of a Convex Cylinder a, whose ends are pointed, as appears in Figure 3. wherein the Pendulum is reprefented, tho' the Weights at the end of the Pendulums made for these Clocks used at Sea are in the Figure X, in form of a Lens, this Figure being found more proper than the other. Fig. 3# In the fame Figure may likewise be feen the manner of the Difpofition of the Weight b,

in order to so move the Clock, that it may not ftand ftill while the Weight b is drawing up ; and this is done by means of a Cord, one end of which must first be faftened to a piece of Iron fixed to the Plate A A, (of Figure 1.) and then it must be put about the Pulley c, of the Weight b •, afterwards over the Pulley d, (which hath Iron Points round it in figure of the Teeth of a Saw, for hindering, left the Weight b fhould pull the Cord down all at once) then about the Pulley/ of the Weighty, and last of ail the other end of the said Cord must be fixed to some proper Place. Things being thus disposed, it is manifest that half of the Weight b moves the Wheels round, and that the Motion of the Clock doth not ceafe, when the Cord e is pulled with one's Hand in order to draw the Weight b up. Note, The Weight £ is for fuftaining the Weight £, and need not be near so big.

The Weight of b cannot be certainly determined by Reasoning, but the less it is the better, provided it be iufficient to make the Clock go. They weigh generally about fix Pounds in the belt Kind of these Clocks that have yet been made, whereof the Diameter of the Pulley D is one Inch, the Weight of the Pendulum X three Pounds, and it's Length three Feet 8 • Lines. Note, If this Clock be at the Height of a Man above the Ground, it will go 30 Hours.

We now proceed to fhew the Manner of making the Cycloidal Cheeks between which the Fig, 4, Pendulum fwings, and in which the whole Exadlnefs of the Clock confifls. In order to do which, defcribe the Circle AFBK, whose Diameter A B let be equal to half of the Length of the Pendulum ; aflume the equal Parts of the Circumference AC, CD, DE, E F°and AG, G H, H I, I K, and draw the Lines G C, H D, I E and K F, from one Division to the other, which Lines will be parallel. Now make the Line L M equal to the Arc AF, which divide into the fame Number of equal Parts as A F, and aflume one of these Parts, which lay off upon the Line CG, from C to N, and G to O. Again, Lay off two of the said equal Parts of the Line L M, upon the Line D H, from D to P, and from H to Q^ Moreover, Aflume three of the said equal Parts upon the Line L M, which lay off upon I E from E to R, and I to S. And finally, Aflume four of the said Parts (which is the whole Length of the Line L M), and lay off upon K F, from F to T, and K to V ; and so of other Parts, if there had been more of them affumed upon the Periphery of the Circle AFBK. Now if the Points N, P, R, T, as also O, &lt;£, S, V, be joined, we shall have the Figure of the Cycloidal-Cheeks (between which the Pendulum fwings), which must be afterwards cut out in Brass. To draw the Line L M equal to the Arc A F, af- fume the two Semi-Chords of the Arcs A F, which lay off upon the Line X V, from X to Y ; this being done, take the whole Chord of the Arc A F, and lay off from X to Z, and divide Z Y into three equal Parts ; one of which being laid off from Z to V, and the Line X V will be nearly the Length of the Arc A F.

The Use of this Instrument fufficiently appears from what hath been already said.

The principal Instruments that an Astronomer ought to have, besides a good Quadrant, and Pendulum Clock, is a Telescope seven or eight Feet long, having a Micrometer ad- jufted thereto, for obferving the Digits of Solar and Lunar Eclipfes, as likewise another of 15 or 16 Feet, for the Obfervation of Jupiter's Satellites ; and, if poflible, a parallactick In- ftrument to take the Parallaxes of the Stars.

ADDITIONS of Englijh Instruments.

Of Globes, Spheres , the Ajlronomical Quadrant \ a Micrometer, and Gunter'j- Quadrant.

CHAP. I.

Of the Globes.

SECTION I.

OF Globes there are two Kinds, viz. Celeftial and TerRestrial. The rTrft is a Repre- fentation of the Heavens, upon the Convex Surface of a material Sphere, contain- ing all the known Stars, after the manner that Astronomers, for the eafier knowing them, have divided them into Conftellations, or Figures of Men, Beafts, Fowls, Fifb.es, &V. according to the Refemblance they fancied each feledl Number of Stars formed. The other is the TerRestrial Globe, which is the Image of the Earth, on the Convex Surface of a ma- terial Sphere, exhibiting all the Kingdoms, Countries, Iflands, and other Places fituated upon it, in the fame Order, Figure, Dimenfions, Situation, and Proportion, refpecting one another as on the Earth itfelf.

There are ten eminent Circles upon the Globe, fix of which are called greater, and the four other lejfer Circles.

174 The ConflruSiion and Uses Book VI.

A kfter Circle is that which is parallel to a greater, as the Tropicks and Polar Circles are to the Equator, and as the Circles of Altitude are to the Horizon.

The great Circles are,

I. The Horizon, which is a broad wooden Circle encompassing the Globe about, having two Notches, one in the North, the other in the South part thereof, for the Brazen Me- ridian to fland, or move round in, when the Globe is to be fet to a particular Latitude.

There are ufually reckoned two Horizons : First, The Viftble or Senjible Horizon, which may be conceived to be made by some great Plane, or the Surface of the Sea ; and which di- vides the Heavens into two Hemifpheres, the one above, the other (apparently) below the Level of the Earth.

This Circle determinates the Rifing and Setting of the Sun, Moon, or Stafcs, in any par- ticular Latitude : for when any one of them comes juft to the Eastern edge of the Horizon, then we fay it Rifes ; and when it doth so at the Western edge, we fay it Sets. And from hence also is the Altitude of the Sun or Stars reckoned, which is their height in Degrees above the Horizon.

Secondly, The other Horizon is called the Real or Rational Horizon, and is a Circle encom- passing the Earth exactly in the middle, and whose Poles are the Zenith and Nadir, viz. two Points in its Axis, each 90 Deg. distant from its Plane, (as the Poles of all Circles are) the one exactly over our Heads, and the other directly under our Feet. This is the Circle that th wooden Horizon on the Globe reprefents.

On which Broad Horizon several Circles are drawn, the innermost of which is the Num- ber of Degrees of the Twelve Signs of the Zodiack, viz. 30 to each Sign : for the ancient Astronomers observed the Sun in his (apparent) Annual Courfe, always to defcribe one and the' fame Line in the Heavens, and never to deviate from this Track or Path to the North or South, as all the other Planets did, more or less : and because they fonnd the Sun to fhift as it were backwards, thro' all the Parts of this Circle, so that in one whole Year's Courfe he would Rife, Culminate, and Set, with every Point of it •, they distinguished the fixed Stars that appeared, in or near this Circle, into 12 Conftellations or Divisions, which they called Signs, and denoted them with certain Characters; and because they are, 'molt of them ufually drawn in the form of Animals, they called this Circle by the Narne of Zo- diack, which signifies an Animal, and the very middle Line of it the Ecliptick ; and since every Circle is divided into 360 Degrees, a twelfth part of this Number will be 30, the Degrees in each Sign.

Next to this you have the Names of those Signs; next to this the Days of the Months, according to the Julian Account, or Old Style, with the Calendar ; and then another C#- lendar, according to the Foreign Account or New Style.

And. without these, is a Circle divided into thirty two equal Parts, which make the 32 Winds or Points of the Mariners Compass, with the Names annexed.

The Uses of this Circle in the Globe are,

1. To determine the Rifing and Setting of the Sun, Moon, or Stars, and to fhew the time of it, by help of the Hour-Circle and Index •, as (hall be fhewn hereafter.

2. To limit the Increafe and Decreafe of the Day and Night : for when the Sun rifes due East, and fets West, the Days are equal.

But when he Rifes and Sets to the North of the East and West, the Days are longer than the Nights ; and contrariwife, the Nights are longer than the Days, when the Sun Rifes and Sets to the Southwards of the East and West Points of the Horizon.

3. To. fhow the Sun's Amplitude, or the Amplitude of a Star ; and also on what Point of the Compass, it Rifes and Sets.

II. The next Circle, is the Meridian, which is reprefented by the brazen Frame or Circle, in which the Globe hangs and turns. This is divided into four Nineties or 360 Degrees, beginning at the Equinoctial.

This Circle is called the Meridian, because when the Sun comes to the South part of it, it is Meridies, Mid-day, or High noon; and then the Sun hath its greateft Altitude for that Day, which therefore is called the Meridian Altitude. The Plane of this Circle is perpen- dicular to the Horizon, and pafTeth thro' the South and North Parts thereof, thro' the Zenith and Nadir, and thro' the Poles of the World. In it, each way from the Equinoclial on the Celeftial Globe, is accounted the North or South Declination of the Sun or Stars ; and on the Terrefirial, the Latitude of a Place North or South, which is equal to the elevation or height of the Pole above the Horizon : Because the Distance from the Zenith to the Horizon, being the fame as that between the Equinoclial and the Poles, if from each you imagine the Di- ftance from the Pole to the Zenith to be taken away, the Latitude will remain equal to the, Pole's Altitude.

There are two Points of this Circle, each 90 Degrees distant from the Equinoctial, which are called the Poles of the World, the upper one the North Pole, and the under one the South Pole. A Diameter continued thro' both the Poles in either Globe and the Center, is called the Axis of the Earth or Heavens, on which they are supposed to turn about.

The Meridians are various, and change according to the Longitude of Places ; for as foon as ever a Man moves but one Degree, or but a Point to the East or West, he is under a New Meridian : But there is or mould be one fixed, which is called the first Me- ridian.

And this on some Globes, pafies thro' one of the Azores Iflands : but the French place the first' Meridian at Fero, one ot the Canary IQands.

The Poles of the Meridian are the East and West Points of the Horizon. On the Terrejtial Globe, are ufually drawn 24 Meridians, one thro' every 15 Degrees of the Equator, or every 15 Degrees of Longitude.

The Uses of the Meridian Circle are,

First, To fet the Globe to any particular Latitude, by a proper Elevation of the Pole above the Horizon of that Place. And, Secondly, To fhew the Sun or Stars Declination, right Afcenfion, and greatcft Altitude ; of which more hereafter.

III. The next great Circle, is the Equinoclial Circle, as it is called on the Celeftial, and the Equator, on the TerRestriai Globe. This is a great Circle whose Poles are the Poles of the World : it divides the Globe into two equal Parts or Hemifpheres, as to North and South ; it pafies thro' the East and West Points of the Horizon, and at the Meridian is always as much railed above the Horizon, as is the Complement of the Latitude of any particular Place. Whenever the Sun comes to this Circle, it makes equal Days and Nights all round the Globe, because it then Rifes due East, and Sets due West, which it doth at no other time of the Year. All Stars also which are under this Circle, or which have no Declination, do al- ways Rife due East, and Set full West.

All People living under this Circle (which by Navigators is called the Line) have their Days and Nights conftantly equal. And when the Sun is in the Equinoctial, he will be at Noon in their Zenith, or directly over their Pleads, and so their erect Bodies can eaft no Shadow.

From this Circle both ways, the Sun, or Stars Declination on the Celeftial, or Latitude of all Places on the Terreflrial Globe, is accounted on the Meridian : and such lefiTer Circles as run thro' each Degree of Latitude or Declination parallel to the Equinoctial, are called Pa- rallels of Latitude or Declination.

Through every 15 Degrees of this Equinoctial, the Hour-Circles are drawn at right An- gles to it on the Celeftial Globe, and all pass thro' the Poles of the World, dividing the Equi- noctial into 24 equal Parts.

And the Equator on the TerRestial Globe, is divided by the Meridians into 36 equal Parts ; which Meridians are equivalent to the Hour-Circles on the other Globe.

IV. The Zodiack is another great Circle of the Globe, dividing the Globe into two equal Parts (as do all great Circles) : When the Points of Aries and Libra are brought to the Ho- rizon, it wiii cut that and the Equinoctial obliquely, making with the former an Angle equal to 23 Degrees 30 Minutes, which is the Sun's greatcft Declination. This Circle is accounted by Astronomers as a Kind of broad one, and is like a Belt or Girdle: Through the Middle of it is drawn a Line called the Ecliptick, or Via Solis, the Way of the Sun ; because the Sun never deviates from ir, in it's annual Courfe.

This Circle is marked with the Characters of the Twelve Signs, and on it is found out the Sun's Place, which is under what Star or Degree of any of the Twelve Zodiacal Conjiellations, he appears to be in at Noon. By this are determined the four Quarters of the Year, accord- ing as t. ; Ecliptick is divided into four equal Parts ; and accordingly as the Sun goes on here, he has more or less Declination.

Also (torn this Circle the Latitude of the Planets and fixed Stars are accounted from the Ecliptick towards the Poles.

The Poles of this Circle are 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes distant from the Poles of the World, or of trie Equinoctial •, and by their Motion round the Poles of the World, are the Polar Circles defcribed.

V. If you imagine two great Circles both palling thro' the Poles of the World, and also one of them thro' the Equinoctial Points Aries and Libra, and the other thro' the Soljlitial Points, Cancer and Capricorn : Thefe are called the two Colures, the one the Equinoclial, and the other the Soljlitial Colure. Thefe. will divide the Ecliptick into four equal Parts, which are denominated according to the Points they pass thro', called the four Cardinal Points, and are the first Points of Aries, Libra, Cancer, and Capricorn.

Thefe are all the great Circles.

VI. If you suppose two Circles drawn parallel to the Equinoctial at 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes, reckoned on the Meridian, these are called the Tropicks, because the Sun appears, when in them, to turn backward from his former Courfe j the one, the Tropick of Cancer ; the other the Tropick of Capricorn, because they are under these Signs.

VII. If two other Circles are supposed to be drawn thro' 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes, reckoned in the Meridian from the Polar Points, these are called the Polar Circles : The Northern is the Arctick, and the Southern the Antarctick Circle, because opposite to the former.

Thefe are the four leffer Circles.

And these on the TerRestrial Globes, the Ancients supposed to divide the Earth into five Zones, viz. two Frigid, two Temperate, and the Torrid Zone.

Besides these ten Circles already defcribed, there are some other neceflary Circles to be known, which are barely imaginary, and only supposed to be drawn upon the Globe.

1. Meridians, or Hour-Circles, which are great Circles all meeting in the Poles of the World, and crofting the Equinoctial at right Angles j these are fupplied by the brazen Meridian Hour-Circle and Index.

2. Azimuths, or Vertical Circles, which likewise are great Circles of the Sphere, and meet in the Zenith and Nadir, as the Meridians and Hour-Circles do in the Poles ; these cut the Horizon at right Angles, and on these is reckoned the Sun's Altitude, when he is not in the Meridian. They are reprefented by the Quadrant of Altitude, by and by fpoken of, which being fixed at the Zenith, is moveable about the Globe thro' all the Points of the Compass.

3. There are also Circles of Longitude of the Stars and Planets, which are great Circles paf- fing thro' the Poles of the Ecliptick, and in that Line determining the Stars or Planets Place Or Longitude, reckoned from the first Point of Aries.

4. Almacanters, or Parallels of Altitude, are Circles having their Poles in the Zenith, and are always drawn parallel to the Horizon. Thefe are lefTer Circles of the Sphere, diminish- ing as they go further and further from the Horizon. In refpect of the Stars, there are also Circles fuppoied to be Parallels of Latitude, which are Parallels to the Ecliptick, and have their Poles the fame as that of the Ecliptick.

5. Parallels of Declination of the Sun or Stars, are lefTer Circles, whose Poles are the Poles of the World, and are all drawn parallel to the Equinoctial, either North or South j and these (when drawn on the Terrejlrial Globe) are called Parallels of Latitude.

VIII. There are belonging to Globes a Quadrant of Altitude, and Semi-Circle of Pofition. The first is a thin pliable Piece of Brass, whereon is graduated 90 Degrees anfwerable to those of the Equator, a fourth Part of which it reprefents •, with a Nut and Screw, to faften it to any part of the brazen Meridian as occafion requires. There is, or fliould be likewise, a Compass belonging to a Globe, that so it may be fet North and South.

The Semi-Circle of Pofition is a narrow Plate of Brass, infcribed with 180 Degrees, and anfwerable to juft half the Equator.

Laftly, The Brass Circle, faftened at right Angles on the brazen Meridian, and the Index put on the Axis, is called the Index and Hour-Circle.

SECTION II.

Having now defcribed the Circles of the Globes, I proceed to their Conjiruffion.

The Body of the Globe is compofed of an Axle-Tree, two Paper-Caps fewed together, a Composition of Plaifter laid over them, and last of all globical Papers or Gores (of which. more by and by), (luck or glewed on the Plaifter.

The Axle-Tree is a Piece of Wood which runs thro' the middle of the Globe, turned fome- times of an eaual Thicknefs, but oftner fmaller in the Middle than at the Ends ; where two Pieces of thick hardened Wire are ftruck in, which is the Axis, that appears without the Globe, on which it turns within the brazen Meridian.

The Paper-Caps inclofe this Axle-Tree, and are made in the following Manner. You must have a Ball of Wood turned round, about a Quarter of an Inch less in Diameter, than the Size you intend to make your Globe of, with two Pieces of Wire ftuck into it, diametri- cally opposite to each other, for Conveniency of turning in a Frame, which may be made of two Pieces of Stick fixed upright in a Board, with Notches on the Tops to lay the Wire in. Round this wooden Ball you must pafte wafte Paper, both brown and white, 'till you judge it to be of the Thicknefs of Pafteboard •, and before it be quite dry, cut it in the Middle, so that it may come ofT in two Hemifpheres : to prevent the Paper faom flicking, let the Ball at first making be thick painted, and every time before you pafte Paper on it, greafe or oil it a little.

The Holes at the Tops of the Caps, occafioned by the Axis on which the Ball turned, are very convenient for the Axis of the Globe to go thro' in covering of it. Then having faftened the Top of the Caps with small Nails to each end of the wooden Axle-Tree, few them clofe together in the Middle with ftrone Twine.

That the Caps may meet exactly, obferve two things: ift, That the Axle-tree be juft in the Diameter of the Ball. 2dly, That before you take the Caps off the Ball, you make Scores a-crofs the parting all round, about an Inch afunder, whereby to bore the Holes for fewino- them even together, and leave a Mark to direct how to join them again in the fame points': for Inftance, make a Crofs over any one of the Scores in the upper Cap, and an- other Crofs upon the fame Score in the under Cap ; and when you clofe them, bring the two Croffes together, by which means the Caps in fewing will come as clofe together as before they were parted. This Care must be taken, that there may be no Openings be- tween ; in which cafe, Paper must be crammed in to flop up the Gaps : but whether there be any Gaps or no, there must be Paper pafted all over it's fewing, to prevent any of the Plaster from falling in.

The Plaster is made with Glue, diflblved over the Fire in Water and Whiting mixed up thick, with some Hemp fhred small ; the Use of which is to bind the Plaster, and keep it from cracking (as Hair is put into Mortar for the fame End) : a Handful will ferve two or three Gallons of Stuff. There is no neceffity for mixing the whole over the Fire, except the Whitin^ runs into Lumps not eafily to be broken with the Hand.

For laying on this Plaster over the Caps in a globular Form, you must have a Steel Semi- Circle exactly half the Circumference you intend the Globe to have, fixed fiat-ways in a 1 level Table made for that purpofe, with a Notch at each end for the Axis (which must nicely fit it) to turn in, and two Buttons to cover it, to prevent the Axis from being forced out of the Notches, when the Globe is clogged with Plaster, and so requires some Violence to turn it.

Then fixing your Paper-Sphere within this Semi-Circle, lay Plaster on it with your Hjnds, turning the Globe eafiiy round, 'till it be covered so as to fill the Semi-Circle: But before it comes to touch the Semi-Circle in all it's Parts, and be equally fmooth all round, it wiil require a great many Layings on of the Plaster, letting it dry between every such Ap- plication.

The second or third time of laying on Stuff, it will begin to touch the Semi-Circle in fome parts, and to appear round ; the fourth time it will touch in more parts, and look rounder •, 'till at last it will touch in all parts, and become perfectly round and fmooth, like a Ball of polifhed Marble.

The next thing to be done is to poife the Globe ; for it generally happens, by reason of the Plaster lying thicker in one place than in another, that some iide weighs ftili down- wards. To remedy this, a Hole must be cut in that part, and a convenient Quantity of Shot put in, in a Bag, to bring it to a due Balance with the Rest •, after which the Place must be ftopped up with a Cork, and covered again •vith Piafter. The Bag tnat holds the Shot may be glewed or fewed to the Cap within, or faftened to the Cork : fometimes after one part is balanced, the Weight will incline to another •, in which cafe the fame Remedy must be applied again, as often as there will be neceffity.

This done, by help of another Semi-Circle, divided into 18 equal Parts, draw the Equa- tor and Parallels of Latitude, placing a Black-lead Pencil at the Graduation, and turning the Globe againfc the Point of it to make a Line. Then divide the Equator with a Pair of Compasses into so m&lt;*ny Parts as there are globical Papers or Gores to lay on, and draw Lines thro' each from Pole to Pole by the Side of the Semi-Circle. Within each of these Spaces so marked out, you have only to lay one of the Gores, which (being cut out so ex- act, as neither to lap over, nor leave a Vacancy between them) by the i\ffiftancc of the Lines drawn upon the Plaster, may be fitted, so as to fall in with each other with the greateft Exactnefs. In applying the Gores, you may use a good binding Pafte, but Mouth Glue is better.

SECTION III.

ConJlruBion of the Circles of the Globe on the Globical Papers or Gores.

As 7 is to 22, So is the Diameter of a Globe to the Circumference of any one of it's greateft Circles. The Diameter of the Globe is ufually given, from whence it often happens that the Circumference confifts of odd Numbers and Parts. Whereas if the Circumference was given in even Numbers, as Inches, it might more eafily be divided into Parts. For Ex- ample, if the Circumference was 36 Inches, each 10 Degrees of Longitude on the Equator will be one Inch •, if the Circumference be 54, each 10 Degrees will be one Inch and a half; if 72, every 10 Degrees of Longitude will be two Inches.

The Diameter of a Globe being given, suppose 24 Inches, to find the Circumference, fay, As 7 is to 22, So is 24 to 75.43 Inches, the Length of the Circumference fought.

The Length of each Gore, from the North Pole to the South Pole, will be exactly half the Circumference of the Globe, which is 37.71 Inches, and the Length from the Equator to either Pole will be ^, viz. 18.86 Inches.

If each of the Globical Papers contain in their greateft Breadth 30 Degrees of the Equa- tor, 12 of them will cover the Globe, and by dividing the Circumference 75.43 by 12, the Quotient will give 6.28 Inches for the Breadth of the Gore.

If 18 of the Gores go to cover the Globe, the Breadth of each will be 20 Degrees of the Equator, or 4.19 Inches.

If 24, each will contain 15 Degrees of the Equator, or 3.14 Inches of the Circum- ference:

If 36, each Paper will contain 10 Degrees of the Circumference, or 2.09 Inches.

If the Globe be so large as to take up 360 Papers, that is, one to every Degree of Longi- tude, then will the Breadth of each Gore be 23 parts of an Inch.

Again, If the Circumference of a Globe be given, suppose 72 Inches, divide it by 2 (for the Length of the Gores from Pole to Pole) and the Quotient will be 36 Inches; and con- fequently half that Length, or the Distance from the Equator to either Pole, will be 18 Inches : as the Distance from N. to S. taken from a supposed Scale of Inches, is 36 Inches, or one half of the Circumference of the Globe ; and the Distance from C to N or S, 18 Inches, or ' of the Circumference.

If each Gore contains 30 Degrees of the Equator in Breadth, or T V of the Circumfe- rence, it will take up 6 Inches thereof as IK.

If 18 of the Gores go to cover a Globe of the aforsaid Circumference, each will con- tain 20 Degrees in Longitude of the Equator, or 4 Inches, as L M.

If your Papers be r ' T of the Circumference, each will contain 15 Degrees of the Equator, or or 3 Inches, as ab.

If they be — °f tne Circumference, each will contain 10 Degrees of the Equator, or 2 Inches, as c d.

If there be 72 Papers for covering the Globe, each will contain 5 Degrees of the Equator, or 1 Inch, that is 7 \ of the Circumference.

If, lastiy, the Globe requires 360 Papers, each will contain 1 Degree, or ' of an Inch.

This being premifed, I now proceed to give the Manner of drawing the Circles of the Globes upon the aforsaid Gores.

Fig. 7. Draw the Diameter W E, and crofs it with another at right Angles to it, as N S. From the Scale of Inches fet off from C to N, and to S, (the North and South Poles) 18 Inches or 4 of the Circumference, which divide into 9 equal parts, each of which likewise fub- divide into 10 more (for the 90 Degrees of North and South Latitude). Upon C, as a Cen- ter, defcribe the Circle NE, S W, and divide each Quadrant into 90 Degrees, numbering each 10th Degree with Figures from the Equator towards the Poles, as 10, 20, 30, &c. Thus the three Points are found, thro' which the parallel Circles to the Equator rauft be drawn, viz. two of them are in the Quadrants N E, N W. and S E, S W, and the third is in the Diameter NS.

To find the Centers of any of the said Parallels, suppose of the Parallel of 60 Degree's, fet one Foot of your CompafTes in the Point 6c, or F, of the Quadrant NE, and extend the other to the Point 60, or D, in the Diameter NS ; then defcribe the little Arcs A, B, and removing the Foot of your CompafTes to the Point D, defcribe two other Arcs, cutting those before defcribed, and thro' the Points of Interferon draw a right Line, which will cut the Diameter C N, produced in the Point G, the Center of the 60th Parallel. Having thus found the Centers of all the Parallels, and drawn them in the Northern Hemifphere, transfer the central Points in the Line C N continued, into the Line C S continued also, and draw the Parallels of the Southern Flemifphere. Note, That whether the polar Papers extend to the 80th or 70th Parallel, those Circles in the meridional Papers, or those that encompass the Body of the Globe, rauft be defcribed as is here ordered ; but in the polar Papers the Pole mult be the Center, as you fee in the Figure, where one Point of the Com- pafTes being fet in the South Pole S, and the other extended to the 80th or 70th Degree of Latitude in the Diameter, ftrikes those Parallels in the polar Papers. See more concerning the polar Papers hereafter.

Then because the polar Circles and Tropicks are but Parallels 23 Dcg. 30 Min. distant from the Poles and Equator -, at those Distances defcribe double Lines, reprefenting such Circles, to distinguish them from other Parallels.

To draw the Meridians. Having chosen one of the Proportions beforementioned for the Breadth of each Paper on the Equator, suppose r \ of the Equator, which is the common Proportion in globical Pa- pers, and the greatcft Breadth that can be allowed them, let the Globe be of what Magni- tude foever : then because r ' r of the Equator contains 30 Degrees, which in the Gores for a Globe of 72 Inches Circumferences, are fix Inches in Breadth •, from a Scale or Inches take three Inches between your CompafTes, and lay them olfon the Diameter W C E, from C to K, and from C to I, the Length from I to K being fix Inches, or 3 Degrees of the Equator, into which it must be divided, and numbered at each 5th or 10th Degree, with the Degrees of Longitude.

Now because a fingle Degree cannot be well divided into Parts in so small a Projection, and feeing that any Number of Degrees of Longitude in any Parallel has the fame Propor- tion to one Degree in that Parallel, as the fame Number of Degrees of Longitude under the Equator has to one Degree of Longitude j therefore take 15 Degrees of the Equator, viz- IC or IK, in your CompafTes, and having divided it feparately, as you would a fin- ale Degree, into 60 equal Parts, look irt the following Table what Proportion a Degree (or 15 Degrees) in each 5th or 10th Parallel of Latitude* hath to a Degree (or 15 Degrees) on the Equator. For example, in the first Column of the Table towards the Left-Hand, are the Degrees of Latitude; over against the 10th Degree, I find 59 Miles in the second Column, and 00 Minutes, or Fractions of a Mile, in the third Column, which signifies that a Decree (or 15 Degrees) in the 10th Parallel of Latitude, contains but 59 Milts 00 Mi- nutcs^of a Degree (or 15 Degrees of the Equator) which Length I take from the Scale I C or CK between my Compaiies, and fet off on each side the Meridian, or Diameter N S, on the 10th Parallel.

A^ain, in the Parallel of 20 Degrees, I find a Degree to contain 56 Miles 24 Minutes, or parts of a Mile, of a Degree in the Equator, and transfer that Length from the aforsaid Scale upon the 20th Parallel ; the like is to be underftood of all the Rest, and those Points being found and joined, will form the Meridians on the Gores. The fame Directions must be followed in all other Proportions for the Breadth cf the Gores; in chusing of which, ob- ferve, that as it is manifest from the Figure of the Globe, that a Paper so large as .'- of the Circumference of the Globe, cannot lie upon its Convexity, without crumbling, lapping over, or tearing, in the Application; therefore it will be better to use some leffer Propor- tion, as L M, ab, or cd: for note, the narrower they are, the more exactly they will fit jthe Globe. Note alio, in drawing the Parallels from 10 to 30 Degrees of Latitude, right Lines will do well enough.

A TABLE /hewing in what Proportion the Degrees of Longitude decreafe

in the Parallels of Latitude.

T#£ exatl Geometrical IV ay of drawing the Parallels and Meridians on the Gores-

Because in the Method before laid down, the true Centers of the Parallels are not exact- Plate 1! ly in those Points found as there directed ; nor the Points in them the Points by which the Fig 1. Meridians must pass: therefore I think it proper here to exhibit the Geometrical Manner of drawing them truly.

Suppose SB to be the Semidiameter of the Globe, with which defcribe the Quadrant BI, and continue out the Semidiameter S I, both ways. Make S A equal to 4 of the Circum- ference ; the Point A of which, will be the Pole of the Gore. Then divide the Quadrant BI into 90 equal Parts or Degrees, to every of which draw the Tangents i 80, k 70, I 6o t m go, &c. until they meet the Radius SI continued. Again, having divided the Line AS (equal to ; of the Circumference of the Globe) into 90 equal Parts, (I have only divided it into 9) and numbred them as per Figure; take the Length of the Tangent i 80 between your Compasses, and fetting one Foot in the Point 80 of the Line AS, the other will fall upon the Point a in the said Line continued out beyond A, which will be the Center of the 80th Parallel parting thro' the Point 80 in the Line A S.

Moreover, to find the Center of the 70th Parallel, take the Tangent k 70 between your Compasses, and fetting one Foot in the Point 70 of the Line A S, the other will fall on the Point b in the Line AS continued, which will be the Center of" the 70th Parallel, passing thro' the Point 80 in the Line AS.

In like manner, to find the Center of the 60th Parallel, take the Tangent / 60 between your Compacts, and fet it off from the Point 60 in the Line A S, and you will have the Center c for the 60th Parallel, passing thro' the Point 60. Proceed thus for finding the Cen- ters d, e t /, g, &V. of the Parallels 50, 40, 30, 20, &c. about each of which Centers refpec- tive Arcs being drawn, the Parallels will be had.

The Reason of this Operation for finding the Centers of the Parallels, is this ; If a Sphere or Globe hath revolved upon a Plane, in such manner that every Point of the Peri- phery of some leffer Circle of it, has touched the said Plane, and the Point which in the beginning of the Motion was contiguous to the Plane, became to be contiguous to it again ; then the Points on the Plane, that were contiguous to the Points of the Periphery of the aforsaid leffer Circle, will be in the Circumference of a Circle, whose Center will be the Vertex of a right Cone, lying on the aforsaid Plane, the ifafe of which will be the said Circle j and confequently the Vertex will be determined in the Plane, by continuing a right Line raifed on the Circle's Center perpendicularly 'till it cuts the aforsaid Plane.

How to draw the Meridians.

Having drawn the Sines 10^, 205-, 30 r, 40 s, &c. divide the Radius BS into 360 equal Parts, or make a Diagonal Scale of that Length, whereby 360 may be taken off. Then having affumed SC for half the Breadth of the Gore, suppose ,' T of the Circumfe- rence of the Equator, take S x (the Sine Complement of 80 Deg.) between your Com paries, and applying this Extent on the Radius B S, or the Diagonal Scale, fee how many of those Parts that the Diameter is divided into, that Extent takes up. Then take ~ v of those Parts, and with the Quotient as so many Degrees make the Arc 10 L off, which will give the Point I. in the Parallel of 10 Degrees, thro' which the Meridian must pass.

Again, take S w between your Compasses, and fee how many of the Parts that the Radius B S is divided into, it contains ; then take T ' T of those Parts, and with the Quotient, as fo many Degrees, make the Arc 20 M off, which will give another Point M, thro' which the lame Meridian muff pass in the 20th Parallel.

In like manner, to find the Point N in the Parallel of 30 Degrees, thro' which the Meri- dian must pass, take S u (the Sine Complement of 60 Degrees) in your Compasses, and fee how many of the Parts that the Radius BS is divided into, it contains ; then taking - + -\. of those Parts, with the Quotient as so many Degrees, make the Arc 30 N off.

Proceeding in this manner, you may find other Points in the other Parallels, thro' which the Meridian mud pass. Which Points being afterwards joined, the quarter of the Meri- dian ANC will be drawn; and therefore one quarter of the Gore •, and confequently the other three Quarters of the Gore will be eafily limited.

Method of ordering the Circumsolar Papers. The Circumpolar Papers were formerly not cut out by themfelves, 'till Artifts found it hard to make the Poles, or Points of the Gores, fall nicely in the North and South Poles ; whence, to help that Inconveniency, they made Circular Papers ferve to cover the Superficies of thq Globe between the Polar Circles, the Parallels on which Papers are all Concentric Circles, and the Meridians Right Lines: yet finding dill so big Papers not to fit the Globe's Con- vexity, but wrinkle about the edges, they have extended them from the Poles only to the Parallels of 70 Degrees. But neither will it do yet, bccaule the Longitude decreafes dif- proportionally, the further off the Poles. If the Diameter of a Polar Paper extends to in Degrees from the Pole only, that Paper will lie flat upon the Globe's Convexity, without any fenfible dretching or contracting : But if it extend to or beyond the 70th Parallel, you mud take another Courfe.

with an extent to the 70th Parallel, defcribe a Circle, which from the Points G or F, divide into 12 equal Parts-, or, which is the fame, continue every other Meridian in the Parallel 80 to the Parallel 70, and by the aforementioned Table fet off on each Side these 12 Meridians, the true Longitude of each 10 Degrees in the Parallel of 80 •, or, which will fave that trouble, transfer the Didance from C to G, or from G to D upon the Pa- rallel of 70 Deg. in the Polar Paper, for that is the extent of 10 Degrees in that Parallel ; and, as is manifed from the Figure, there will lie between each twelfth part of the Circum- ference FG, a narrow flip of Paper which mud be cut out, and then the Paper being laid upon the Globe, the Parts will naturally clofe : whereas, for want of this Care taken, we commonly fee the Polar Papers wrap over and wrinkle ; besides, the Points of the Meridians on the Polar Papers feldom meet those of the Meridians of the Gores, except now and then by chance.

From this one rough Draught you may transfer the red of the Gores that are to make up the Surface of the Globe ; by which the trouble of projecting a New Scheme for every

Gore will be avoided. Obferve to do it with great care, For a small Error will, when the Gores are all joined, appear very fenfible. Then because the Gores in all make 12, you mav divide your Proje&ions upon three Sheets of large Paper, allowing four Gores to each Sheet

Draw an East and West Diameter thro' every Sheet, in each of which fet off the Distance Fi from I to K, of Fig. 7. Plate 17. with your Compafles four times, without fliiftino- the Points. In the middle of each eRest Perpendiculars, and transfer 70 Degrees thereon (al- lowing the Polar Papers to include 20 Degrees from the Poles) Northwards and South- wards from the Center, which is the Interferon of the Equator with theftraight Meridians or Perpendiculars, for Northern and Southern Latitude.

From the aforsaid Semi-gore, take the Distance between the Point of each 10th Parallel in the Perpendiculars, and in the Meridians AC, B D, and in the fair Draught defcribe Arcs to the Right and Left, upon the Points in the Perpendiculars.

Then placing one foot of your Compafles in the Point A or B, extend the other to the Point of the Meridians and Parallels Interferon ; and as you go alone-, transfer the Di- ftances upon the Copies from the correfpondent Points of the Equator into the Arcs, and the Places where they cut will be the Points thro' which the Meridians and Parallels mull be drawn. And that Meridian, among all the Papers which is pitched upon for the first, let be divided equally from the Equator to G, and then in the Polar Papers to the Poles, into De- grees or Minutes, numbering each 10th or 5th Degree, with the Degrees of Latitude, mind- ing to draw three Lines to diftinguilh it from other Meridians. The fame mull be observed in defcribing the Ecliptick or Equator; on which last every 5th or 10th Degree, 'till you come to 180 Degrees, must be figured Eastward and Westward from the first Meridian.

When all the Papers are finifhed so far as relates to the Meridians and Parallels, you must next draw the Ecliptick •, and because that Circle interfe&s the Meridians in such and such Parallels of Declination, and the Meridians cut the Equator in the Degrees of Right Afcenfion •, therefore by help of a Table of the Declination of those Points of the Ecliptick that cut the Meridian, and the Right Afcenfion of the fame Points, find the Declination over-agamft the Right Afcenfion, which fhews thro' what parts of the Meridians the Ecliptick Arcs must pass ; and draw Right Lines thro' the Points of Interferon, which Lines will form the Ecliptick on the Globe;

A TABLE of Right Afcenfion and Declination of every 15 Degrees of the Signs.

Seek the Right Afcenfion as Longitude, and the Declination as Latitude, and where thev interlt-ct is the refpecYive Point of the Ecliptick.

Proceed next to infert the Stars on the Gores for the Celeftial Globe, and Places on those for the lerRestnal Globe, by help of most approved Aftronomical and Geographical Tables and Maps according to their refpedive Longitude and Latitude, which may eafily be affected by finding the Meridian and Parallel of the Star or Place; and the Point where they interfeft each other, will be the exacl Situation thereof.

The Rhumb Lines (which always make the fame Angles with the Parallels they are dawn thro; may be inlcribed by Wrights Card, or Loxodromick Tables, found in some Books of iNavigation, as those in Newhoufe. Trade Winds are beft defcribed from Dr Halley in the fbiiophical Tranfaclions : the Conftellations may be drawn by a Celeftial Globe.

0Ur Projettures of the Heaven and Earth being finifhed, you may either apply them to a particular Pair of Globes, or have them engraved in Copper- Plates.

BEfore I lay down the Uses of the Globe, it will be proper to exhibit the following Definitions, neceflary to be known in order to underftand their Uses.

Definition I. The Latitude of any Place, is an Arc of the Meridian of that Place, intercepted between the Zenith and the Equator ; and this is the fame as an Arc of the Meridian inter- cepted between the Pole and the Horizon •, and therefore the Latitude of any Place is often cxpRested by the Pole's Height, or Elevation of the Pole : the Reason of which is, that from the Equator to the Pole, there always being the Distance of 90 Degrees, and from the Ze- nith to the Horizon the fame Number, and each of these 90 containing within it the Di- flance between the Zenith and the Pole ; that Distance therefore being taken away from both, must leave the Distance from the Zenith to the Equator equal to the Distance between the Pole and the Horizon, or the Elevation of the Pole above the Horizon.

Definition II. Latitude of a Star or Planet, is an Arc of a great Circle reckoned on the Quadrant of Altitude, laid through the Star and Pole of the Ecliptick, from the Ecliptick towards its Pole.

Definition III. Longitude of a Place is an Arc of the Equator intercepted between the Meridian •, or it is more properly the Difference, either East or West, between the Meridians of any two Places, accounted on the Equator.

Definition IV. Longitude of a Star, is an Arc of the Ecliptick, accounted from the be- ginning of Aries to the Place where the Star's Circle of Longitude croffeth the Ecliptick ; fo that it is much the lame as the Star's Place in the Ecliptick, accounted from the beginning of Aries.

Definition V. Amplitude of the Sun or of a Star, is an Arc of the Horizon intercepted be- tween the true East or West Points of it, and that Point upon which the Sun or Star rifes or fets.

Definition VI. Right Afcenfion of the Sun, or of a Star, is that part of the Equinoctial reckoned from the beginining of Aries, which rifeth or fetteth with the Sun or Star in a Right Sphere : but in an Oblique Sphere it is that part of a Degree of the Equinoctial, which comes to the Meridian with it, (as before) reckoned from the beginning of Aries.

Definition VII. A right or direct Sphere, is when the Poles are in the Horizon, and the Equator in the Zenith: the Confequence of being under such a Pofition of the Heavens as this (which is the cafe of those who live directly under the Line) is, that the Inhabitants have no Latitude nor Elevation of the Pole ; they can nearly fee both the Poles of the World. All the Stars in the Heaven do once in twenty-four Hours rife, culminate, and fet with them ; the Sun always rifes and dtfeends at Right Angles with the Horizon, which is the Reason they have always equal Days and Nights, because the Horizon doth exactly bifect the Circle of the Sun's Diurnal Revolution.

Definition VIII. A Parallel Sphere, is where the Poles are in the Zenith and Nadir, and the Equinoctial in the Horizon •, which is the Cafe of such Perfons, if any such there be, who live directly under the North or South Poles.

And the Confequence of such a Pofition are, that the Parallels of the Sun's Declination will alio be Parallels of his Altitude, or Almacanters to them. The Inhabitants can fee only such Stars as are on their side the Equinoctial; and they must have fix Months Day, and fix Months continual Night every Year •, and the Sun can never be higher with them than 23 Degrees, 30 Minutes, which is not so high as it is with us on February the 10th.

Definition IK. An oblique Sphere, is where the Pole is elevated to any Number of De- grees less than 90 : and confequently the Axis of the Globe can never be at Right Angles to, nor in the Horizon -, and the Equator and Parallels of Declination, will all cut the Ho- rizon obliquely, from whence it takes its Name.

Oblique Afcenfion of the Sun or Stars, is that Part or Degree of the Equinoctial reckoned from the beginning of Aries, which rifes and fets with them in an oblique Sphere.

Afcenfional Difference, is the Difference between the right and oblique Afcenfion, when the leffer is fubftracted from the greater.

On the Terreflrial Globe. Definition X. A Space upon the Surface of the Earth, reckoned between two Parallels to the Equator, wherein the Increafe of the longeft Day is a quarter of an Hour, is by fome Writei s called a Parallel.

Definition XI. And the Space contained between two such Parallels, is called a Climate: Thefe Climates begin at the Equator ; and when we go North or South, till the Day becomes half an Hour longer than it was before, they fay we are come into the first Climate ; when the Days are an Hour longer than they are under the Equator, we are come to the Second Climate, &c these Climates are counted in Number 24, reckoned each way from the Poles. " The Inhabitants of the Earth are divided into three forts, as to the falling of their

Shadows.

Definition XII. Amphifcii, who are those which inhabit the Torrid Zone, or live between the Equator and Tropicks, and confequently have the Sun twice a Year in their Zenith ; at which time they are Afcii^ i. e. have no Shadows, the Sun being vertical to them : these have their Shadows call to the Southward, when the Sun is in the Northern Signs, and to the Northward when the Sun is in the Southern Signs reckoned in refpect of them.

Definition Xill. Heterofcii, who are those whose Shadows fall but one way, as is the Cafe of all such as live between the Tropicks and Polar Circles ; for their Shadows at Noon are always to the Northward in North Latitude, and to the Southward in South La-

Definition XIV. Peri frit, are such Perfons that inhabit those Places of the Earth that lie between the Polar Circles andthe Poles, and therefore have their Shadows falling all manner of ways, because the Sun at some time of the Year goes clear round about them. The Inhabitants of the Earth, in refpect to one another, are alio divided into three Sorts.

Periceceiy who are such as inhabiting the lame Parallel (not a great Circle), are yet directly opposite to one another, the one being East or West from the other exactly 180 Degrees, which is their Difference of Longitude. Now these have the fame Latitude and Length of Days and Nights, but exactly at contrary Times ; for when the Sun rifeth to one, it fets to the other.

Antceci, who are Inhabitants of such Places, as being under a Semi-circle of the fame Meridian, do lie at equal Distance from the Equator, one towards the North, and the other towards the South. Now these have the fame Degree of Latitude, but towards contrary Parts, the one North and the other South ; and therefore must have the Seafons of the Year directly at contrary Times one to the other.

Antipodes, who are such as dwell under the fame Meridian, but in two opposite and equi- distant Parallels, and in the two opposite Points of those two Parallels •, so that they go Feet against Feet, and are distant from each other an intire Diameter of the Earth, or 180 Degrees of a great Circle. Thefe have the fame Degree of Latitude, but the one South, the other North, and accounted from the Equator a quite contrary way ; and therefore these will have all things, as Day and Night, Summer and Winter, directly contrary to one another.

U S E I. To find the Latitude of any Place.

Bring the Place to the Brass Meridian, and the Degrees of that Circle, intercepted between the Place and the Equinoctial, are the Latitude of that Place either North or South.

Then to fit the Globe so that the wooden Horizon fhali reprefent the Horizon of that Place, elevate the Pole as many Degrees above the wooden Horizon, as are contain'd in the Latitude of that Place, and it is done •, for then will that Place be in the Zenith.

If after this you rectify the Globe to any particular time, you may by the Index know the time of Sun-rifing and Setting with the Inhabitants of that Place, and confequently the prefent Length of their Day and Night, £sfV.

USE II. To find the Longitude of a Place.

Bring the Places severally to the Brass Meridian, and then the Number of Degrees of the Equinoctial, which are between the Meridians of each Place, are their Difference of Longitude either East or West.

But if you reckon it from any Place where a first Meridian is supposed to be placed, you must bring the first Meridian to the Brazen one on the Globe ; and then turn the Globe about 'till the other Place comes thither also : reckon the Number of Degrees of the Equi- noctial intercepted between the first Meridian, and the proper one of the Place, and that is the Longitude of that Place, either East or West.

USE III. To find what Places of the Earth the Sun is Vertical to, at any time affigned.

Bring the Sun's Place found in the Ecliptick on the TerRestrial Globe to the brazen Meri- dian, and note what Degree of the Meridian it cuts ; then by turning the Globe round about, you will fee what Places of the Earth are in that Parallel of Declination (for they will all come fuccefiively to that Degree of the brazen Meridian) ; and those are the Places and Parts of the Earth to which the Sun will be Vertical that Day, whose Inhabitants will then be Afcii ; that is, their erect Bodies at Noon will eaft no Shadow.

USE IV. To find the Sun's place in the Ecliptick in any given Day of the Month, by means of the Circle of Signs on the wooden Horizon. Seek the Day of the Month upon the Horizon, obferving the Difference between the Julian and Gregorian Calendars ; and then against the laid Day you will find, in the Circle of Signs, the Sign and Degree the Sun is in the said Day. This being done, find the fame Sign and Degree upon the Ecliptick on the Superficies of the Globe, and the Sun's place will be had. Note, If the Sun's place be required more exactly, you must confult an Ephe- meris for the given Year, or else calculate it from Aftronomical Tables.

U S E V. The Sun's Place for any Day being given, to find his Declination. Bring the Sun's Place for that Day to the Meridian, and then the Degrees of the Meri- dian, reckoned from the Equinoctial either North or South to the said Place, fliew the Sun's Declination for that Day at Noon, either North or South, according to the time of the Year, viz. from March the 10th to September the 12th, North ; and from thence to March again, South.

USE VI. To find the Sun's Amplitude either Rijing or Setting. Having rectified the Globe to the Latitude of the Place, that is, moved the brazen Me- ridian 'till the Degree of the Latitude thereon be cut by the Plane of the wooden Horizon, bring the Sun's Place to the said Horizon either on the Eafb or West side, and the Degrees of the Horizon, reckoned from the East Point, either North or South, give the Amplitude fought, and at the fame time you have in the Circle of Rhumbs the Point that the Sun rifes or fets upon.

USE VII. To find the Sun's Right Afcenfion.

Bring the Sun's Place to the brazen Meridian, and the Degrees intercepted between the beginning of Aries, and that Degree of the Equinoctial which comes to the Meridian with the Sun, is the Right Afcenfion ; which if you would have in time, you must reckon every 15 Degrees for one Hour, and every Degree four Minutes.

Note, The Reason of bringing the Sun's place to the Meridian in this Use, is to fave the trouble of putting the Globe into the Pofition of a Right Sphere : for properly Right Afcenfion is that Degree of the Equinoctial, which rifes with the Sun in a Right Sphere. But since the Equator is always at Right Angles to the Meridian, if you bring the Sun's place thither, it must in the Equinoctial cut his Right Afcenfion.

USE VIII. To find the Sun's Oblique Afcenfion. Having rectified the Globe to the Latitude, bring the Sun's Place to the East-side of the Horizon, and the Number of Degrees intercepted between that Degree of the Equinoctial, which is now come to the Horizon and the beginning of Aries, is the Oblique Afcenfion. Now the leffer of these two Afcenfions being taken from the greater, the Remainder is the afcenfional Difference •, which therefore is the Difference in Degrees between the Right or Oblique Afcenfion, or the Space between the Sun's Rifing or Setting, and the Hour of fix. Wherefore the afcenfional Difference being converted into Time, will give the time of the Sun's Rifing and Setting before or after fix.

USE IX. To find the time of the Sun's Rifing or Setting in any given Latitude. Having first brought his Place to the Meridian, and the Hour-Index to twelve at Noon, bring his Place afterwards to the Horizon, either on the East or West-side thereof ; then the Hour Index will either fhew the time of his Rifing and Setting accordingly. Now the time of the Sun's Setting being doubled, gives the Length of the Day ; and the time of his Ri- fing doubled, gives the Length of the Night.

USE X. The find the Sun's Meridian Altitude, or Depreffion at Midnight, in any given Latitude.

Bring his Place to the Meridian above the Horizon, for his Noon Altitude, which will fhew the Degrees thereof, reckoning from the Horizon ; and to find his midnight Depreffion below the North Point of the Horizon, the Point in the Ecliptick opposite to the Sun's prefent Place, must be brought to the South part of the Meridian above the Horizon, and the Degrees there intercepted between that Point and the Horizon, are his midnight Depreffion.

USE XI. To find the Sun's Altitude at any time of the Day given. Rectify the Globe, that is, bring the Sun's Place to the Meridian, and fct the Hour- Index to twelve, and raife the Pole to the Latitude of the Place above the Horizon. This being done, fit the Quadrant of Altitude, that is, fcrew the Quadrant of Altitude to the Zenith, or in our Latitude fcrew it so that the divided Edge cuts 51 Deg. 32 Min. otl the Meridian reckoned from the Equinoctial. Then turn the Globe about 'till the Index (hews the given Time, and ftay the Globe there; after which, bring the Quadrant of Alti- tude to cut the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, and then that Place or Degree of the Ecliptick will fhew the Sun's Altitude on the Quadrant of Altitude.

USE XII. To find the Sun's Altitude, and at what Hour he is due East or West. Rectify the Globe, and fit the Quadrant of Altitude. Then bring the Quadrant to cut the true East Point, and turn the Globe about 'till the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick cuts the divided Edge of the Quadrant of Altitude ; for then that Place will fhew the Altitude* and the Index the Hour.

USE XIII. The Sun's Azimuth, or when he is on any Point of the Compass being given j to find his Altitude and the Hour of the Day. Set the Quadrant of Altitude to the Azimuth given, and turn the Globe about 'till his place in the Ecliptick touches the divided Edge of the Quadrant •, so shall that Place give the Altitude on the Quadrant, and the Hour-Index the Time of the Day.

USE XIV. To find the Declination, and the Right Afcenfion of any Star. Bring the Star to the brazen Meridian, and then the Degrees intercepted between the Equinoctial and the Point of the Meridian cut by the Star, gives its Declinations. And the Meridian cuts, and fhews its Right Afcenfion on the Equinoctial, reckoning from the beginning of Aries.

USE XV. To find the Longitude and Latitude of any Star. Bring the Soliftitial Colure to the brazen Meridian, and there fix the Globe ; then will the Pole of the Ecliptick be juft under 23 Deg. 30 Min. reckoning from the Pole above the North Point of the Horizon, and upon the fame Meridian •, there fcrew the Quadrant of Altitude, and then bring its graduated Edge to the Star affigned, and there ftay it : so will the Star cut its proper Latitude on the Quadrant, reckoned from the Ecliptick ; and the Quadrant will cut the Ecliptick in the Star's Longitude, or its Distance from the first Point of Aries.

USE XVI. To find the time of any Star's rifing, fetting, or culminating, that is, being on the Meridian.

Rectify the Globe, and Hour-Index, and bring the Star to the East or West part of the Horizon, or to the brazen Meridian, and the Index will fhew accordingly the Time of the Star's rifing, fetting, or culminating, or of its being on the Meridian.

USE XVII. To know, at any time affigned, what Stars are rifing or fetting, which are on the Meridian, and how high they are above the Horizon ; on what Azimuth or Point of the Compass they are ; by which means the real Stars in the Heaven may eafily be known by their proper Names, and rightly distinguished from one another.

Rectify the Globe, and fit the Quadrant of Altitude, and fet the Globe, by means of the Compass, due North and South •, then turn the Globe and Hour-Index to the Hour of the Night affigned ; so will the Globe, thus fixed, reprefent the Face or Appearance of the Heavens for that time: whereby you may readily fee what Stars are in or near the Hori- zon ; what are on or near the Meridian ; which are to the North, or which to the South, &c. and the Quadrant of Altitude being laid over any particular Star, will fhew its Al- titude and Azimuth, or on what Point of the Compass it is, whereby any Star may eafily be known ; efpecially if you have a Quadrant to take the Altitude of any real Star supposed to be known by the Globe, to fee whether it agrees with that Star which is its Reprefen- tative on the Globe or not.

USE XVIII. The Sun's Place given, as also a Star's Altitude, to find the Hour of the Night. Rectify the Globe, and fit the Quadrant of Altitude ; then move the Globe backwards or forwards, till the Quadrant cuts the Star in its given Altitude : for then the Hour-Index will frew the Hour of the Night. And thus may the Hour of the Night be known by a Star's Azimuth, or its Azimuth by its Altitude.

USE XIX. To find the Distance between any two Stars. If the Stars lie both under the fame Meridian, bring them to the brazen Meridian, and the Degrees of the said Meridian comprehended between them, are their Distance.

If they are both in the Equinoctial, or have both the fame Declination, that is, are both in the fame Paraiiei, then bring them one after another to the brazen Meridian, and the De- grees of tiie Equinoctial intercepted between them, when thus brought to the Meridian fe- verally, are their Distance.

If the Stars are neither under the fame Meridian or Parallel, then either lay the Quadrant of Altitude from one to the other (if it will reach), and that will fhew the Distance between them in Degrees ; or eife take the Distance with CompafTes, and apply that to the Equi- noctial, or to the Meridian.

This Method of Proceeding will also fhew the Distance of any two Places on the Terre- ftrial Globe in Degrees. Wherefore to find how far any Place on the Globe is from another, you need only take the Distance between them on the Globe with a Pair of CompafTes, and applying the CompafTes to the Equator at the Beginning of Aries, or at the first Meridian, you will there find the Degrees of their Distance, which multiplied by 70 (or 6y T \&gt; Englijh Miles), and that will be their Distance in Miles.

SECTION I.

Of the Ptolemaick Sphere.

Fig. 3. PTT^ H E third Figure of Plate 18, reprefents a Ptolemaick Armillary Sphere, made of

Brass, or Wood, confiding of the fame Circles that have been defcribed in Chapter I. aforegoing, and having a round Ball fixed in the Middle thereof, upon the Axis of the World, reprefenting the Earth. Upon the Surface of this Ball are drawn Meridians, Pa- rallels, &c. as likewise as many Kingdoms, Countries, Seas, &c. with their Names, as can conveniently be depicted thereon. This Sphere revolves about the said Axis, between the Meridian, and by this means not only fhews the Sun's diurnal and annual Courfe, &c. about the Earth, according to the Ptolemaick Hypothefis, which supposes the Earth to be at Rest, and the Sun to move about the fame •, but likewise by it any Problem relating to the Sun, may be folved, that can be done by the Globes. And this any one that knows the Use of the Globes may likewise do.

SECTION II.

Of the common Copernican Sphere.

Fig. 4. This Sphere ftands upon four brafs or wooden Feet, upon each of which are fixed the four

Ends of a brafs or wooden Crofs, upon which Crofs is fattened a large hollow brafs or v/ooden Circle, whose Center is exactly over the Center of the Crofs. Upon the upper Plane of this Circle are the Calendars, and Circle of Signs defcribed, the fame as on the Horizon of the Globes. Clofe within the Infide of this Circle is fitted a flat moveable Rundle, whose Center is common with the Center of the Crofs. The outmost Limb of this Rundle is divided into 24 equal Parts, reprefenting the 24 Hours of Day and Night, numbered from the Index (of which more hereafter) towards the Right-hand with Numerical Letters from I to XII, and then beginning again with I, II, &c. to XII again.

There is a round Wheel fixed upon the Crofs, under the said Rundle, whose Convex Side is cut into a certain Number of Teeth. Thro' the Rundle, the Wheel on the Crofs, and the Crofs itfelf, is fitted a perpendicular Axis, about which the Rundle moves. This reprefents part of the Axis of the Ecliptick, and at the Top thereof is placed a little Golden Ball, re- prefenting the Sun.

On the under Side of the moveable Rundle moves another Wheel, whose Convex Side is cut into Teeth, and as the Rundle is turned about upon it's Center, this Wheel is also turn- ed about upon it's Center, by the falling in of the Teeth on that Wheel fixed on the Crofs. Likewise near the outmost Limb of the Rundle is fitted another Wheel, into which is fitted a Pedeftal, holding up a Sphere of several Parts, having a TerRestrial Globe inclofed therein, as shall be fhewn hereafter. The outmost Limb of this Wheel is likewise cut into Teeth, fitted into the Teeth of the fixed Wheel ; and so as the Rundle moves round, this Wheel is carried about, and with it likewise the Earth, and all the Circles faftened upon the afore- said Pedeftal.

On one Side of this Rundle is faftened a little round Pin to turn about the Rundle by, and near this Pin, is an Index upon the Rundle, reaching to the outward Limb of the great hollow Circle, and so at once may be applied to the Day of the Month in both Ca- lendars, and also to the Degree of the Ecliptick the Sun is in that Day at Noon. Note, This Index is called the Index of the moveable Rundle. On each Side of the Crofs is placed a Pillar, fupporting a broad Circle, reprefenting the Zodiack, with the Ecliptick in the

Middle

Chap. 3. of Spheres. 187

Middle thereof, as in the Ptolemaick Sphere. Note, This is called the Zodiack, in the Use

of the Sphere.

Upon the aforsaid Pedeftal are fattened two Circles cutting each other at Right Angles, reprcfenting the two Colures so placed, that the Points wherein they interfect each other ftand directly upwards and downwards, and reprefent the Poles of the Ecliptick, the upper- most being the North, and the other the South. One of these Colures, viz. the Solftitial, hath a small Hour-Circle placed thereon, at the Extremity of the Axis of the Earth. In the Middle, between the two Poles of the Ecliptick, is a Circle broader than the Colures, cut- ting them at Right Angles; and this reprcfents the Ecliptick, so called in the Use of the Sphere, and is divided into Degrees, figured with the Names and Characters of the Signs, and having on the inward Edge thereof fcveral of the moil notable fixed Stars, with the Names affixed to them, and each Star placed to the Degree and Minute of Longitude there- on, that it hath in Heaven.

Oblique to this Ecliptick 23 ; Degrees, on the Infide, is fitted a thin Circle, reprefent- incr the Equinoctial, and is divided into 360 Degrees, and having two parallel lelTer Circles at 23 ' Degrees equally distant therefrom, reprefenting the Tropicks. On the Infule of all these Circles, two thin Semi-Circles (called Semi-Circles of Latitude) are fitted in the Poles of the Ecliptick, so as one of them may move thro' one half the Ecliptick, viz. from Cancer thro' Aries to Capricorn \ and the other from Cancer thro' Libra to Capricorn : the lormer of these may be called the vernal Semi-Circle of Latitude, and the other the autumnal Semi- Circle of Latitude. On the Edge of these Semi-Circles are depicted the fame fixed Stars in their proper Longitude and Latitude, as are placed on the Ecliptick Circle aforsaid, with their several Names affixed to them.

Thro' the folftitial Colure at 23 4- Degrees from each Pole of the Ecliptick, goes a Wire, reprefenting the Earth's Axis, having an Index placed on the End thereof, for pointing at the Hour, on the Hour-Circle placed on the folftitial Colure, as aforsaid. In the Middle of this Axis is fixed a round Ball, reprefenting the Earth, having Meridians, Parallels, &c. and the Bounds of the Lands and Waters depicted thereon, as also the Names of as many Coun- tries and Towns as can be placed with conveniency thereon. And in two opposite Points of the Equinoctial of this Ball, viz. 90 Degrees distant from the first Meridian, are fixed two small Pins, whereon* a moveable Horizon is placed, in the Eait and West Points thereof \ so that these Pins ferve for an Axis to the Horizon : for on these Pins the Horizon may be elevated or depRested to any Degree the Pole is elevated above the Horizon. This Horizon Aides on the North and South Points, within a brazen Meridian, hung upon the Axis of the Earth.

Round this Meridian, on the outmost Side, is made a Groove, having a small brafs Ring fitted therein, so as the upper Side thereof is even with the upper Side of the brazen Meridian. This small brafs Ring is fattened to two opposite Points in the Horizon, viz. in the North and South, and fcrves as a Spring to keep it to the Degree of the Meridian you elevate the Hori- zon to. Upon two Pins on this small Ring, are likewise fattened two Semi-Circles of Altitude, yet not so fattened, but that they may move as upon Centers, the one moving from North to South, thro' the East-Side of the Horizon, and the .other the fame way thro' the West- Side. This Motion is performed upon the two Pins aforsaid, as upon two Poles, which they reprefent, viz. the Poles of the Horizon, and therefore are so placed, that they may divide the upper and lower half of the Horizon into two equal Parts, and as the Horizon is moved, Aide always into the Zenith and Nadir, and so become the Poles of the Horizon. Thefe two Semi-Circles of Altitude are divided into twice 90 Degrees, numbered at the Ho- rizon upwards and downwards, and ending at 90 in the Zenith and Nadir.

SECTION III.

The Use of the Copernican Sphere.

USE I. The Day of the Month given -, to reclify the Sphere for Use in any given La- titude, and to fet it correfpondent to the Situation of the Heavens.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and elevate the Ho- rizon to the Latitude of the Place ; then bring the Meridian to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, and the Index of the Hour-Circle to 12. Laftly, Bring the Center of the Earth, the Sun, or Golden Ball, in the Sphere, and the Sun in Heaven into a Right Line. Then will the Earth be rectified to it's Place in Heaven, the Horizon to it's Latitude on Earth, the Circles on the Sphere agreeable to those in Heaven, and the whole correfpondent with the Heavens for that Day at Noon.

USE II. The Day of the Month being given, to find the Sun's Declination. Rectify the Earth's Place (according to Use I.) and then you will have the Sun's Place in the Zodiack •, then bring the Meridian to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick on the Sphere ; and the Number of Degrees comprehended between the Equinodial and the Sun's Place, are the Sun's Declination for that Day at Noon.

USE III. 'To find the Sun's Right or Oblique Afcenfion for any Day at Noon.

Rectify the Earth's place to the Day of the Month, and bring the Meridian to the Sun's place in the Ecliptick •, and the Number of Degrees on the Equinoctial contained between the vernal Colure, and the Sun's place, are the Right Afcenfion fought.

Now to find the Oblique Afcenfion, turn the Earth 'till the East side of the Horizon ftands against the Sun, and the Degree of the Equinoctial then at the Horizon, fhews the Ob- lique Afcenfion.

USE IV. To find the Sun's Meridian Altitude.

Bring the Index of the Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Horizon to the Latitude of the Place. This being done, bring the Meridian to the Sun's place in the Ecliptick, and the Number of Degrees on the Meridian comprehended between the Horizon and the Sun's place, gives the Meridian Altitude fought.

U S E V. To find the Sun's Altitude at any time of the Day. Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon, and Hour-Index: then turn the Earth 'till the Hour-Index comes to the given Hour of the Day, and bring the vertical Circle to the Sun's place, and the Number of Degrees of the vertical Circle that tranfite the Sun's place, are his Altitude above the Horizon.

USE VI. The Sun's Altitude being given, to find the Hour of the Day. Bring the Index of the Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Horizon and Hour-Index (as by[Use I.); then turn the Earth 'till the you can fit the Horizon to the given Altitude upon the vertical Circle, directly against the Sun's place ; then the Hour-Index will give the Hour of the Day, refpect being had to the Morning or Afternoon.

USE VII. To find at what Hour the Sun comes to the Eajl or West Points of the Horizon.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour-Index (as by Use I.).; then bring the vertical Circle to the East Point of the Horizon, if it be the Sun's Easting you enquire ; or to the West Point of the Horizon, if it be the Sun's Westing. This being done, turn the Earth 'till the vertical Circle comes to the Sun's place ; then will the Index point to the Hour of the Day.

USE VIII. To find the time of the Sun's rifing or fetting. Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon, and Hour-Index, Then turn the Earth Eastwards, 'till some part of the East-side of the Horizon ftands directly against the Sun's place ; then will the Hour-Index point to the time of the Sun's rifing. Again, Turn the Earth 'till some part of the West-side of the Horizon ftands directly against the Sun's place, then the Index of the Hour-Circle will fhew the time of the Sun's letting.

USE IX. The Hour of the Day given, to find the Sun's Azimuth. Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour-Index. Then turn the Earth 'till the Hour-Index points to the Hour of the Day given. This being done, bring the vertical Circle to the Sun's place, and the Number of Degrees of the Horizon, that the vertical Circle cuts, counted from the East Point, either Northwards or Southwards, are the Degrees of the Sun's Azimuth before Noon. Or the Number of Degrees of the Horizon that the vertical Circle cuts, counted from the West- side of the Horizon, either Northwards or Southwards, give the Sun's Azimuth after Noon.

USE X. To find in what Place of the Earth the Sun is in the Zenith, at any given time; as also in what fever al Places of the Earth the Sun jh all ft and in the Horizon at the fame time.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Hour- Index j then feek the Sun's Declination, and turn the Earth eaftwards 'till the Index points to the given Hour ; so shall the Number of Degrees of the Equinoctial that the Meridian palles thro' while the Earth is thus turning, be the Number of Degrees of Longitude, eaft- wards from your Habitation, the Place shall have in the Parallel of the Sun's Declination.

Now if you open a Pair of Calliper Compafles to 90 Degrees on the Equinoctial, and place one Foot in this Point of the Earth thus found, and turn the other Foot round about the Earth, all the Places that the Foot pafles thro' will at that time have the Sun in their Horizon.

USE XL How to find the true Places of the Stars on the Sphere j as likewise their Longitude and Latitude. Round the Plane of the Ecliptick, are placed several of the moil noted fixed Stars, ac- cording to their true Longitude ; and along the two Semi-circles of Latitude, are the fame Stars placed according to their Latitude from the Ecliptick. Whence if you would find the true place of any given Star in the Sphere ; First feek the Star in the Ecliptick, and like- wife the fame Star on one of the Semi-circles of Latitude, and bring the edge of that Semi- circle to the Star in the Ecliptick ; then will the Star on the Semi-circle of Latitude ftand in the fame Place and Situation on the Sphere, that it does in Heaven.

USE XII. To find the Declination, right and oblique Afcenfion of a Star. Brinp- the proper Semi-circle of Latitude to the Star on the Ecliptick, and the Meridian to the Star on the Snni-circle of Latitude; and then the Number of Degrees on the Me- ridian, comprehended between the Equinoctial and the Star* are its Declination. Likewise the Decree of the Equator, cut by the Meridian, is the Star's right Afcenfion. But to find a°Star's oblique Afcenfion, rectify the Horizon (as by Use 1.) and bring the proper Semi-circle of Latitude to the Star in the Ecliptick, and turn the East-side of the Horizon to the Star ; then will the Degree of the Equator cut by the Horizon be the Star's oblique Afcenfion i

USE XIII. To find the Time of the Riftng and Setting of any Star in any given Latitude. Brino- the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour Index; then bring the proper Semi-circle of Latitude to the Star on the Ecliptick, and the East-side of the Horizon to the Star; this being done, the Hour- Index will fliew the Hour the Star rifes at : and if you bring the West-side of the Horizon to the Star, the Index of the Hour- Circle will fhew the Time that the Star fets.

USE XIV. The Day of the Month, Hour of the Night, and Latitude of the Place being
given, to know any remarkable Star observed in the Heavens.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Ho- rizon and Hour-Index ; then turn the Earth 'till the Index of the Hour-Circle comes to the Hour of the Night, and obferve the Altitude of the Star, and what Point of the Compass it bears upon. Afterwards bring the vertical Circle to the fame Point of the Compass, and number the Star's Altitude on the vertical Circle, and try with the Semi- circle of Latitude what Star you can fit to that Altitude, for that is the Star in the Heavens.

USE XV. The Azimuth of any known Star being given, to find the Hour of the Nighty

and Almicanter of that Star.

Bring the Index of the moveable Rundle to the Day of the Month, and rectify the Horizon and Hour-Index ; afterwards bring the Star to its place, and the vertical Circle to its known Degree of Azimuth. This being done, turn the Earth 'till the vertical Circle comes to the Star; then the Index of the Hour-Circle will fliew the Hour of the Night, and the Degree of the vertical Circle cut by the Star will be its Almicanter.

SECTION IV.

The Dcfcription and Use of the Copernican Sphere, called the Orrery*

The Outfide of this Instrument, as appears by the figure thereof, is very beautiful, the pj a f e I( v Frame being of fine Ebony adorned with 12 Silver Pilasters, in the form of Caryatides ; and F i g . 1. with all the Signs of the Zodiuck caft of the fame Metal, and placed between them : the Handles arc also of Silver finely wrought, with very nice Joints. On the top of the Frame, which is exactly circular, is a broad Silver Ring, on which the Figures of the twelve Signs are exactly graved, with two Circles accurately divided ; one fhewing the Degrees of each Sign, and the other the Sun's Declination against his place in the Ecliptick each Day at Noon.

The aforsaid Silver Plate, reprefents the Plane of the great Ecliptick of the Heavens, or that of the Earth's annual Orbit round the Sun ; which, as it pafTes thro' the Center of the Sun, so its Circumference is made by the Motion of the Earth's Center; and which, for the better advantage of View and Sight, is in the Figure placed parallel to the Horizon.

S is a large gilded Ball, (landing up in the middle, whose Support A B makes with the Plane of the Ecliptick an Angle of about 82 Degrees. This Support reprefents the Sun's Axis continued, about which he revolves in about 25 Days, and the Golden Ball re- prefents the Sun itfelf placed pretty near the Center of the Earth's Orbit j so that when the Instrument is fet a-going, the Excentricity of the Earth, and the other Planets, may be in the fame Proportion as they are in the Heavens.

The two little Balls M and V, which ftand upon two Wires at different Distances from the Sun, reprefent Mercury and Venus : The reason why they are placed upon the said two "Wires, is only that their Centers may be fometimes in, and always pretty near the Plane of the great Ecliptick ; and this Pofition is contrived in order to fhew what Appearances they do really exhibit in their several Revolutions round the Sun.

The Globe E is of Ivory, and reprefents the Earth. The Pin or Wire that fupports it, reprefents the Earth's Axis continued, and makes an Angle of 66 I Degrees, with the Plane of the Ecliptick. And as the Earth in each of her annual Revolutions round the Sun, always keeps her own Axis parallel to itfelf j so when this Instrument is fet a-going, the little Ivory Earth will likewise do so too, in it's Revolution round the Golden Sun S.

The little Ball m (landing upon a Wire, reprefents the Moon, and ab is a Silver Circle reprefenting her Orbit round about the Earth, the Plane whereof always passes thro' the Center of the Earth ; and there are several Eigures graved upon it, fhewing the Moon's Age, from one New Moon to the other.

One half of the Moon's Globe is white, and the other black, that so her Phafes may be reprefented: for this Instrument is so contrived, that this little Moon will turn round it's own Axis, at the fame time as it moves in the Silver Orbit round the Earth E.

The whole Movement, which confifts of near ioo Wheels, is covered by a great Brass Plate, having a Hole in it, and there is a moveable Index on the Silver Ecliptick, on the former of which, are the common Solar Years denoted ; and by taking the Instrument to 'pieces, it may be fet to this prefent time ; and the Planets, by means of an Ephemeris, may be fet to any particular time also. So that if a Weight or Spring, as in a Clock, were ap- plied to the Axis of the Movement, so as to make it move round once in juft twenty-four Hours, the reprefentative Planets in the Instrument, viz. Mercury, Venus, the Earth, and the Moon, would all perform their Motions round the Sun, and one another, exactly in the fame Order as their Originals do in the Heavens ; and so the Afpects, Eclipfes, &c. of the Sun and Planets, would thereby be fhewn for ever. But becaule this would be inftrudtive only in that flow and tedious way, to such as could have daily recourfe to it, therefore there is a Handle fitted to it, by which the Axis may be fwiftly turned round •, and so all the Appearances fhewn in a very little time : for by turning the Handle backwards or for- wards, what Eclipfes, Tranfits, &c. have happened in any time paft, or what will hap- pen for any time to come, will be fhewn, without doing any injury to the Inftru- ment.

One entire Turn of the Handle of this Instrument, anfwers to the diurnal Motion of the Earth about it's Axis, and is measured by means of an Hour-Index, placed at the Foot of the Wire whereon the Earth is fixed, moving once round in the fame time. Also ob- ferve that the Contrivance of this Instrument is such, that the Motion may be made to tend either way, forwards or backwards ; and so the Handle may be turned about 'till the Earth be brought to any Degree or Point of the Ecliptick required.

Again, As the Earth moves round, by turning the Handle, the Moon's Orbit rifes and falls about 5 Degrees above and below the great Ecliptick, that so her North or South La- titude may be exactly reprefented ; and there are two little Studs placed in two oppofue Points of the Moon's Orbit, reprefenting the Moon's Nod.s.

Now if the Handle, one Turn of which anfwers to one Natural Day, or twenty-four Hours, be turned twenty-five times about, then the Sun will have moved once round about it's Axis. Again, 365 -\ of the Turns of the Handle will carry the Earth quite round the Sun ; 88 will carry Mercury quite round ; 244 will make Venus move once round the Sun; and about 27 -i Turns will carry the Moon round the Earth in her Orbit, which will like- wife at the fame time always turn tfje fame Hemifphere towards the Earth.

And by thus revolving the Earth and Planets round the Sun, the Instrument may be brought to exhibit Mercury, and fometimes Venus, as directly interpofed between the Earth and the Sun •, and then they will appear as Spots in the Sun's Disk : and this Instrument fhews also very clearly the Difference between the Geocentrick and Heliocentrick Afpects, according as the Eye is placed in the Center of the Earth or Sun.

This Instrument likewise very plainly fhews the Difference between the Moon's Periodick and Synodick Months, and the reason thereof; for if the Earth be fet to the first Point of Aries, at which time suppose the first New Moon happens, and afterwards the Handle be turned 27 \ times about, we fliall have the second New Moon ; and if at the Earth's Place in the Ecliptick where this last New Moon happens, some Mark be made, and then the Handle be turned 27 - times more, the Moon will be exactly brought again to interpofe between the Earth and the Sun, that is, it will be New Moon with us : but the Line of the Syzygy will not be right against the aforsaid Mark in the Ecliptick, but behind it; and it will require two Days time, or two Turns more of the Handle, before it gets thither. The reason of this is plain, because in this 27 -^ Days, the Earth advances so far forwards in her annual Courfe, as is the Quantity of the Difference in time between the Moon's two Months.

If the Handle be turned about 'till the Conjunction or Oppoiition of the Sun and Moon happens in or near the Nodes, then there will be an Eclipfe of the Sun or Moon. But in order yet further to fhew the Solar Eclipfes, and also the several Seafons of the Year, the Increafe and Decreafe of Day and Night, and the different Lengths of each in different Parts of our Earth, there is a little Lamp contrived to put on upon the Body of the Sun, which carting, by means of a Convex Glass (the Room wherein the Instrument is, being a little darkened), a strong Light upon the Earth, will fhew at once all these things: First, how one half of our Globe is always illuminated by the Sun, while the other Hemifphere is in the dark, and confequently how Day and Night are formed by the Revolution of the Earth round her Axis. Also by turning round the Handle, you will fee how the Shadow of the Moon's Body will cover some part of the Earth, and thereby fhew, that to the Inhabitants of that part of the Earth there will be a Solar Eclipfe.

When the Earth is brought to the first Degree of Aries or Libra, the reason of the Equa- lity of Days and Nights all over the Earth, will be plainly fhewn by this Instrument ; for in these Pofitions, as the Earth turns about her Axis, juft one half of the Equator, and all Parallels thereto, will be in the Light, and the other half in the Dark ; and therefore the Days and Nights must be every where equal : for the Horizon of the Earth's Disk will be parallel to the Plane of the Solftitial Colure.

And when the Earth is brought to Cancer, the Horizon of the Disk, or that Plane which divides the Earth's enlightened Hemifphere from the darkened one, will not then be parallel to, but lie at Right Angles to the Plane of the Solftitial Colure. The Earth being now in Cancer, the Sun will appear to be in Capricorn, and confequently it will be our Winter Solftice. And as the Earth is turned either way about it's Axis, the entire Northern frigid Zone, or all Parts of the Earth lying within the Artick Circle, are in the dark Hemifphere; and by making a Mark in any given Parallel, by the Earth's diurnal Revolution, you will know how much longer the Nights are than the Days in that Parallel. And the contrary of this will happen, when the Earth is brought to Capricorn.

Therefore this Instrument delightfully and demonftratively fhews, how thereby all the Phaenomena of the different' Seafons of the Year, and the Varieties and VicifTitudes of Night and Day, are folved and accounted for.

CHAP. IV.

Of an Aflrono?nical Quadrant ', Micrometer^ and Gunter'j

Quadrant,

SECTION I.

THIS Figure reprefents an Aftronomical Quadrant upon it's Pedeftal, with it's Limb Fig. 2. curioufly divided diagonally, and furnifhed with a fixed and moveable Telescope.

This Quadrant may be moved round horizontally, by turning a perpetual Screw fitted into the Pedeftal : For as this Screw is turned about by means of a Key, at the fame time it caufes the Axis A to turn, by the falling in of its Threads between the Teeth of a strong thick Circle on the said Axis.

Behind the Quadrant is fixed, at Right Angles to its Plane, a strong thick Portion of a Circle greater than a Semicircle, having one Semi-circle of the outfide thereof cut into Teeth. There is likewise another strong thick Portion of a Circle fomething greater than a Semi-circle behind the Quadrant, which is moveable upon two fixed Studs, at Right Angles to the former Portion ; so that the Plane of this Portion may be parallel, inclined, or at Right Angles to the Plane of the Quadrant. On the side of this Portion, which is made flat next to the other fixed Portion, is a contrivance with a Screw an'd perpetual Screw, such that in turning the Screw the Threads of the perpetual Screw may be locked in betwen the Teeth of the fixed circular Portion ; and by this means the Quadrant fixed to any Point, according to the direction of the Plane of the fixed Portion. And when the Quadrant is to be moved but a small matter in the aforsaid Direction, this may be done by turning the perpetual Screw with a Key.

The Outfide of the abovementioned moveable circular Portion is cut into Teeth, and about the Center thereof the Axis A is moveable, according to the Direction of the Plane of the said Portion. In this Axis Aides a little Piece carrying a perpetual Screw, whose Threads, by means of a Trigger, may be locked in between the Teeth of the moveable circular Portion. And so when the Axis is fet in the Pedeftal, the Quadrant may be fixed to any Point, according to the Direction of the Plane of the said moveable Portion.

Therefore by these Contrivances the Quadrant may be readily fixed to any required Si- tuation, for obferving Celeftial Phaenomeua, without moving the Pedeftal.

There is a Piece Aiding on the Index, upon which the moveable Telescope is fattened, carrying a Screw and perpetual Screw ; so that when the Telescope and Index are to be fixed upon any Point in the Limb of the Instrument, this may be done, by means of the Screw which locks the Threads of the perpetual Screw in between some of the Teeth cut round the curve Surface of the Limb of the Instrument: and when the Index and Te- lefcope is to be moved a very minute Space backwards or forwards along the Limb, this is done by means of a Key turning a small Wheel faftened upon the aforenamed Piece, which is cut into a certain Number of Teeth, and whose Axis is at Right Angles to the Plane of the Quadrant; for this Wheel moves another (having the fame Number of Teeth as that) which is at the end of the Cylinder whereon the perpetual Screw is : and by this means the perpe- tual Screw is turned about ; and so the Index and Telescope may be moved a very minute Space backwards or forwards along the Limb. Note, The Number of Teeth the Curve Surface of the Limb is divided into, must be as great as pofiible, and the Threads of the perpetual Screw falling between them very fine ; for the Exactnefs of the Instrument very much depends upon thus.

Thefe Quadrants are commonly two Feet Radius, and all Brass, except the Pedeftal and the perpetual Screws ; the Telescopes have each two Glastes and Crofs-hairs in their Foci ; and for the Manner of dividing their Limbs, &c. See our Author's Quadrants.

SECTION II.

Concerning a Micrometer.

ig, 3&lt; This Micrometer is made of Brass : ABC^ is a rectangular Brass Frame, the Side A B

being about 3 Inches long, and the Side B C, as likewise the opposite Side A g, are about 6 Inches ; and each of these three Sides are -Ay of an Inch deep. The two opposite Sides of this Frame are fcrewed to the circular Plate, which we mall fpeak of by and by.

The Screw P having exactly 40 Threads in an Inch, being turned round, moves the Plate GDEF, along two Grooves made near the Tops of the two opposite Sides of the Frame ; and the Screw QJiaving the fame Number of Threads in an Inch as P, moves the Plate RNMY along two Grooves made near the bottom of the said Frame, in the fame di- rection as the former Plate moves, but with half the Velocity as that moves with. Thefe Screws are both at once turned, and so the said Plates moved along the fame way, by means of a Handle turning the perpetual Screw S, whose Threads fall in between the Teeth of Pinions on the Screws P and Q^ Note, Two and a half Revolutions of the perpetual Screw S, moves the Screw P exactly once round.

The Screw P turns the Hand a, faftened thereto over 100 equal Divisions made round the Limb of a circular Plate, to which the abovenamed two opposite Sides of the Frame are fcrewed at Right Angles. The Teeth of the Pinion of the Screw P, whose Number are 5, takes into the Teeth of a Wheel, on the backfide of the circular Plate, whose Number are 25. Again, On the Axis of this Wheel is a Pinion of two, which takes into the Teeth of another Wheel moving about the Center of the circular Plate, without side the fame, having 50 Teeth. This lalt Wheel moves the leffer Hand b once round the abovenamed circular Plate, in the T .^ part of the time the Hand a is moving round : for because the Number of Teeth of the Pinion on the Screw P, are 5, and the Number of Teeth of the Wheel this Pinion moves round, are 20-, therefore the Screw P moves four times round in the fame time the said Wheel is moving once round. Again, Since there is a Pinion of two takes into the Teeth of a Wheel, whose Number are 50, therefore this Wheel with go Teeth will move once round in the fame time that the Wheel of 20 Teeth hath moved twenty-five times round ; and confequently the Screw P, or Hand a, must move a hundred times round in the fame time as the Wheel of 50 Teeth, or the Hand b&gt; hath moved once round.

It follows from what hath been said, that if the circular Plate W, which is faftened at Right Angles to the other circular Plate, be divided into 200 equal Parts, the Index x to which the Handle is faftened, will move five of these Parts in the fame time that the Hand a has moved one of the hundred Divisions round the Limb of the other circular Plate: and fo by means of the Index x, and Plate W, every fifth Part of each of the Divisions round the other Plate may be known.

Moreover, Since each of the Screws P and Q^ have exactly 40 Threads in an Inch; therefore the upper Plate GDEF will move 1 Inch, when the Hand a hath moved forty times round, the four thoufandth part of a Inch, when the said Hand hath moved over one of the Divisions round the Limb, and the twenty thoufandth part of an Inch, when the Index x hath moved one part of the 200 round the Limb of the circular Plate W j and the under Plate RNMY, half an Inch, the two thoufandth part of an Inch, and the ten thoufandth part of an Inch the fame way, in the said refpective times.

Hence, if the under Plate, having a large round Hole therein, be fixed to a Telescope- so that the Frame may be moveable together with the whole Instrument, except the said lower Plate, and the ftrait fmooth Edge HI, of the fixed narrow Plate A B IH, as likewise the ftrait fmooth Edge D E of the moveable Plate G D E F, be perceivable thro' the round Hole * the under Plate, in the Focus of the Object-Glass ; then when the Handle of the Micro- meter is turned, the Edge H I of the narrow Plate ABIH, fixed to the Frame, and D E of the moveable Plate, will appear thro' the Telescope equally to accede to, or recede from, each other. And so these Edges will ferve to take the apparent Diameters of the Sun, Moon, He. the manner of doing which is thus : Suppose in looking at the Moon thro' the Tele- fcope, you have turned the Handle 'till the two Edges D E and H I are opened, so as to iuft touch or clafp the Moon's Edges ; and that there was twenty-one Revolutions of the Hand a to compleat that Opening. First fay, As the focal Length of the Object-Glass, which suppose io Feet, is to Radius, So is i Inch to the Tangent of an Angle fubtended by 1 Inch in the Focus of the Object-Glass, which will be found 28 Min. 30 Sec. Again, Be- caufe there are exa&ly 4o«Threads of the Screws in one Inch, fay, If forty Revolutions of the Hand a give an Angle of 28 Min. 38 Sec. what Angle will twenty-one Revolutions give? The Anfwtr will be 15 Min. 8 Sec. and such was the Moon's apparent Diameter, and io may the apparent Diameters of any diflant Objects be taken.

It is to be observed, that the Divisions upon the top of the Plate G D E F, are Diagonal Divisions of the Revolutions of the Screws, with Diagonal Divisions of Inches againlt them ; and so as the said Plate Aides along, these Diagonals are cut by Divisions made on the Edge of the narrow Plate KL, fixed to the opposite Sides of the Frame by means of two Screws. Thefe Diagonal Divisions may ferve to count the Revolutions of the Screws, and to fiiew how many there are in an Inch, or the Parts of an Inch.

SECTION III.

Of the Cortflruttion of Gunter'j Quadrant.

This Quadrant, which is partly a Projection, that is, the Equator, Tropicks, Eclip- p . tick, and Horizon, are ftereographically projected upon the Plane of the Equinoctial, the Eye s being supposed to be placed in one of the Poles, may be thus made.

About the Center A defcribe the Arc CD, which may reprefent either of the Tropicks. Again, Divide the Semidiameter AT so in E, that AE being Radius, AT may be the Tangent of 56 Deg. 46 Min. half the Sun's greateft Declination above the Radius or Tan- gent of 45 Deg. To do which, fay, As the Tangent of 56 Deg. 46 Min is to 1000 ; So is Radius to 655: therefore if AT be made 1000 equal Parts, A E, the Radius of the Equator, will be 655 of those Parts. And if about the Center A, with the Distance AE, the Quadrant E F be defcribed, this will ferve for the Equinoctial.

Now to find the Center of the Ecliptick, which will be fomewhere in the left Side of the Quadrant AD (reprefenting the Meridian) you must divide AD so in G, that if A F be the Radius, AG may be the Tangent of 23. Deg. 30 Min. the Sun's greateft De- clination; therefore if AF be 1000, AG will be 434. And if about the Center G, with the Semidiameter G D, an Arc E D be defcribed, this will be I of the Ecliptick. And to divide it into Signs and Degrees, you must use this Canon, viz. As Radius is to the Tan- gent of any Degree's distance from the neaRest Equinoctial Point, So is the Co-fine of the Sun's greateft Declination to the Tangent of that Degree's Right Afcenfion, which must be counted on the Limb from the Point B, by which means the Quadrant of the Ecliptick may be graduated.

As, for Example, The Right Afcenfion of the first Point of « being 27 Deg. 54 Min. lay a Ruler to the Center A, and 27 Deg. 54 Min. on the Limb, from B towards C, and-whers it cuts the Ecliptick, will be the first Point of a ; and so for any other.

The Line ET, between the Equator and the Tropick, which is called the Line of De- clination, may be divided into 23 Deg. 30 Min. in laying off from the Center A, the Tan- gent of each Degree added to 45 Deg, the Line A E being supposed the Radius of the Equinoctial. As suppose the Point for 10 Degrees of Declination be to be found, add 5 Deg. (half 10.) to 45 Deg. and the Sum will be 50 Deg. the Tangent of which will be (supposing the Radius 1000) 1192 : therefore laying 1192 Parts from A, or 192 from E, and you will have a Point for 10 Degrees of Declination •, and so for others.

Moft of the principal Stars between the Equator and Tropick of Cancer^ maybe put on the Quadrant by means of their Declination, and Right Afcenfion. As suppose the Wing of Pegafus be 13 Deg. 7 Min. and the Right Afcenfion 358 Deg. 34 Min. from the first Point of Aries. Now if about the Center A, you draw an occult Parallel thro' 13 Deg. 7 Min. of Declination, and then lay a Ruler from the Center A thro' 1 Deg. 26 Min. (the Complement of 358 Deg. 34 Min. to 360 Deg.) in the Limb BC, the Point where the Ruler cuts the Parallel, w'rll be the Place for the Wing of Pegafus, to which you may fet the Name, and the Time when he comes to the South.

There being Space fufficicnt between the Equator and the Center, you may there de- fcribe the Qu ad rant, and divide each of the two Sides further!: from the Center into ioo Parts; so (hall the Quadrant be generally prepared for any Latitude*. But before the particular Lines can be drawn, you mutt have tour Tables fitted tor the Latitude the Qua- drant is to ferve in.

Firtt, A Table of Meridian Altitudes for the Division of the Circles of Days and Months, which may be thus made : Confider the Latitude of the Place, and the Sun's Declination for each Day of the Year-, if the Latitude and Declination be both North, or both South, add the Declination to the Complement of the Latitude; if they be one North and the other South, fubftract the Declination from the Complement of the Latitude, and you will have the Meridian Altitude for that Day. As, in the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min. North, whose Complement is 38 Deg. 28 Min. the Declination on the 10th of June will be 23 Deg. 30 Min. North ; therefore add 23 Deg. 30 Min. to 38 Deg. 28 Min. and the Sum will be 61 Deg. 58 Min. the Meridian Altitude on the 10th ot June. Again, The Declination on the 10th of December will be 23 Deg. 30 Min. South ; wherefore take 23 Deg. 30 Min. from 1% Deg. 28 Min. and the Remainder will be 14 Deg. 58 Min. the Meridian Altitude on the 10th of December. And in this manner may the Meridian Altitude for each Day in the Year be found, and put in a Table.

Your Table being made, you may inferibe the Months and Days of each Month on the Quadrant, in the Space left below the Tropick. As, Laying a Ruler upon the Center A, and 16 Deg. 42 Min. the Sun's Meridian Altitude on the ilt of January, in the Limb BC, you may draw a Line for the end of December and beginning of January. Again, Lay- ing a Ruler to the Center A, and 24 Deg. 34 Min. the Sun's Altitude at Noon the end of January, or first of February, on the Limb, and you may draw a Line for that Day. And so of others.

Now to draw the Horizon, you mutt find its Center, which will be in the Meridian Line A C ; and it the Point H be taken such, that if A H be the Tangent Complement of the Latitude, viz. of 38 Deg. 28 Min. AF being supposed Radius; or if A F be supposed 1000, and AH 776 of thoie Parts, then will H be the Center of the Horizon. Therefore if about the Center H, with the Distance HE, an Arc be defcribed cutting the Tropick T D, the said Arc will reprefent the Horizon.

The next thing done, mil it be to make a Table for the Division of the Florizon, which may be done by this Canon, viz. As Radius is to the Sine of the Latitude, So is the Tan- gent of any Number of Degrees in the Florizon (which will be not more than 40 in our Latitude) to the Tangent of the Arc in the Limb which will divide the Florizon.

As in our Latitude, 7 Deg. ^2 Min. belongto 10 Deg. of the Degrees of the Florizon; there- fore laying a Ruler to the Center A, and 1 Deg. 52 Min. in the Limb B C, the Point where the Ruler cuts the Florizon, will be 10 Deg. in the Horizon ; and so of the re It. But the Lines of DittincYion between every 5th Degree are beft drawn from the Center H.

The third Table for drawing the Hour-Lines, mutt be a Table of the Sun's Altitude above the Horizon at every Hour, efpecially when he comes to the Equator, Tropicks, and other intermediate Declinations. If the Sun be in the F.quator, and so have no Declination, as Radius to the Co- fine of the Latitude, so is the Co-fine of any Hour from the Meridian to the Sine of the Sun's Altitude at that Hour.

But if the Sun be not in the Equator, you must fay, As the Co-fine of the Hour from the Meridian is to Radius, So is the Tangent of the Latitude to the Tangent of a 4th Arc. Then confider the Sun's Declination, and the Hour proposed ; it the Latitude and Decli- nation be both alike, and the Hour fall between Noon and Six, fubftract the Declination from the aforsaid 4th Arc, and the Remainder will be a 5th Arc.

But if the Hour be either between Six and Midnight, or the Latitude and Declination unlike, add the Declination to the 4th Arc, and the Sum will be a 5th Arc. Then as the Sine of the fourth Arc is to the Sine of the Latitude, so is the Co-fine of the 5th Arc to the Sine of the Altitude fought.

Laftly, You may find the Sun's Declination when he rifes or fets, at any Hour, by this Canon, viz. As Radius is to the Sine of the Hour from Six, So is the Co-tangent of the La- titude to the Tangent of the Declination.

As in our Latitude you willl find, that when the Sun rifes at five in the Summer, or seven in the Winter, his Declination is 11 Deg. 36 Min. whence you willfind the Sun's Me- ridian Altitude in the beginning of 20 will be 61 Deg. 58 Min. in n 58 Deg. 40 Min. in &gt;5 49 Deg. 58 Min. in °r 38 Deg. 30 Min. &c. but the beginning of 25 and ur is reprefented by the Tropick TD, drawn thro' 23 Deg. 30 Min. of Declination, and the beginning ot &lt;r and ±± by the Equator E F. Now if you draw an occult Parallel between the Fquitor and the Tropick, at 1 1 Deg. 30 Min. of Declination, it shall reprefent the beginning of s , "&gt;", ni, and X. If you draw another occult Parallel thro' 20 Deg. 12 Min. of Declination, it will reprefent the beginning of u, 51, f and .cr.

Then Jay a Ruler from the Center A thro' 61 Deg. 58 Min. of Altitude in the Limb BC, and note the Point where it croffes the Tropick of 22. Then move the Ruler to 58 Deg.

40 Mm. and note where it croffes the Parallel of n ■, then to 49 Deg. 58 Min. and note where it crofles the Parallel of « ; and again to 38 Deg. 28 Min. noting where it croffes the Equ ;i.or •, and a Line drawn thro' these Points will reprefent the Line of 12 in the Summer while the Sun is in r, «, n, sr, si, or "R. In like manner, if you lay a Ruler to A and 26 Deg. 58 Min. in the Limb, and note the Point where it croffes the Parallel of x ; then move it to 18 Deg, 16 Min. and note where it croffes the Parallel of sx. And a^a*in, to 14 Deg, 58 Min. noting where it croffes the Tropick of vf •, the Line drawn thro' these Po'ints fh.ill (hew the 1 lour of twelve in the Winter. And in this manner may the Rest of the Hour- Lines be drawn, only that of seven from the Meridian in Summer, and five in the Winter, will crofs the Line of Declination, at 11 Deg. 35 Min. and that of eight in the Summer, and four in the Winter, at 21 Deg. 38 Min.

The fourth Table for drawing of the Azimuth Lines must also be made for the Al- titude of the Sun above the Horizon, at every Azimuth, efpecially when the Sun comes to the Equator, Tropicks, and some other intermediate Declinations.

If the Sun be in the Equator, and so has no Declination, as Radius to the Co- fine of the Azimuth from the Meridian ; so is the Tangent of the Latitude to the Tangent of the Sun's Altitude at the Azimuth in the Equator.

If the Sun be not in the Equator, as the Sine of the Latitude is to the Sine of the De- clination, io is the Co-fine of the Sun's Altitude at the Equator, at a given Azimuth, to the Sine of a 4th Arc.

Now when the Latitude and Declination are both alike in all Azimuths, from the Prime Vertica to the Meridian, add this 4 th Arc to the Arc of Altitude at the Equator But when the Azimuth is above 90 Degrees distant from the Meridian, take the Altitude at the Equator from this 4th Arc When the Latitude and Declination are unlike, take the said 4 th Arc from the Arc of Altitude at the Equator, and then you will have the Sun's Altitude for a propoled Azimuth.

Laftly, When the Sun rifes or fets upon any Azimuth, to find his Declination, fay, As Radius to the Co-fine of the Latitude, So is the Co-fine of the Azimuth from the Meridian,

to the Sine of the Declination.

t N °Z % T a bh w^ S n ]' dd f accordin g t0 the ar °refaid DiRestions, if you would draw the L.neo East or West, which is 90 Degrees from the Meridian, lay a Ruler to the Center A and 30 Deg 38 Min. numbered in the Limb from C towards B, and note the Point where it croffes the Tropick of sb , then move the Ruler to 26 Deg. 10 Min. and note where t croffes the Parallel of D s then to 14 Deg. 45 Min. and note where it croffes the Parallel of « ; then to o" and 0°, and you will find it crofs the Equator in the Point F : then a Line drawn

be' drawn " ^ ** ^ ** *** Wcft AZ ' imuih - A " d so ^ -D^A^S

Thefe Lines being thus drawn, if you fet two Sights upon the Line AC and at

£ &£ wllfbe fil^ P1UmmCt ' Wlth 3 * S "*» ^ "' &lt;™e of

USE I the Sun's Place being given, to find his Right Afcenfion, and contrariwife.

Let the I hread be aid upon the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, and the Degrees which it cuts m the Limb, will be the Right Afcenfion fought agrees which it

DetVwI^^fi^f i^hfT' 5 f Jac \ b V hC 4 h ? egreG ° f "' the Thread laid on this ue ,ee will cu. 62 Ueg. in tne Limb, which is the Right Afcenfion required But if rhf*

o n re\h n^o DeT Zll^cT^^^ °^ ^ *$ J^f™ lite

T l?! E t! ' P" S "/' Pla " k '"Z X' ve "' " J&gt;" d his Declination, and contrariwife. Thread to \w7n' ?'n f ^ Bead to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick ; then move the of Donation fought! DeC ' lnat ' on &gt; aild th "&lt; th &lt; ^ "ill fall upon tfc Degrees of the line

thif PlacTnt^le TW?'' ? C&lt; t be th c e 4th D ^ ree of »&gt; the B " d W"g fi* fet to Declfnation ,75^.' fi^*^^"* °" ^"^ ^ &lt; here ?° u wi " «"" "" Sun's

^Thread ^d^Z ^ ° S nT" 1 '. in haV ' n 8 the Declination given, you mud first lay give the sl-rpla^efought DcC ' ,nat,0n &gt; and thcn th = *«l ™ved to the Ecliptick wiS

USE III. The Bay of the Month being given, to find the Sun's Meridian Altitude, and contrariwife.

Lay the Thread to the Day of the Month, and the Degrees which it cuts in the Limb will be the Sun's Meridian Altitude.

Suppose the Day given be May the 15th, the Thread laid upon this Day will cut 59 Dew. 20 iVIin. the Meridian Altitude fought.

Again, If the Thread be let to the Meridian Altitude, it will fall upon the Day of the Month.

As, suppose the Sun's Meridian Altitude be 59 Deg. 30 Min. the Thread fet to this Altitude falls upon the 15th Day of May, and the 9th of July ; and which of those two is the true Day, may be known by the Quarter of the Year, or by another Day's Obferva- tion : for it the Sun's Altitude be greater, the Thread will fall upon the 16th of May, and the 8th of July ; and if it prove leffer, then the Thread will fall on the 14th of May, and the 10th of July \ whereby the Queftion is fully anfwered.

USE IV. The Sun's Altitude being given, to find the Hour of the Bay, and contrariwife.

Having put the Bead to the Sun's Place in the Ecliptick, obferve the Sun's Altitude by the Quadrant; and then if the Thread be laid over the fame in the Limb, the Bead will fall upon the Hour required. For example; Suppose on the 10th of April, the Sun b^ing then in the beginning of Taurus, I obferve his Altitude by the Quadrant to be 36 Deg. place the Bead to the beginning of Taurus in the Ecliptick, and afterwards lay the Thread over 36 Degrees of the Limb ; then the Bead will fall upon the Hour-Line of 9 and 3 : and so the Hour is 9 in the Morning, or 3 in the Afternoon. Again, If the Altitude be near 40 Degrees, the Bead will fall half way between the Hour-Line of 9 and 3, and the Hour- Line of 10 and 2. Wherefore it mutt be either half an Hour paft 9 in the Morning, or half an Hour paft two in the /ifternoon; and which of these is the true Time of the Day, may be known by a second Obfervation : For if the Sun rifes higher, it is Morning, and if it be- comes lower, it is Afternoon.

Now to find the Sun's Altitude by having the Hour given, you must lay the Bead upon the Hour given (having first rectified or put it to the Sun's Place) and then the Degrees of the Limb cut by the Thread, will be the Sun's Altitude fought.

Note, The Bead may be rectified otherwise, in bringing the Thread to the Day of the Month, and the Bead to the Hour-Line of 12.

U S E V. To find the Sun's Amplitude either rifing orfettihg, when the Bay of the Month or

Sun's Place is given.

Let the Bead rectified for the time, be brought to the Horizon ; and there it will (hew the Amplitude fought. If, for example, the Day given be the 4th of May, the Sun will then be in the 4th Degree of Gemini. Now if the Bead be rectified and brought to the Ho- rizon, it will there fall on 35 Deg. 8 Min. and this is the Sun's Amplitude of rifing from the East, and of his fetting from the West.

USE VI. The Bay of the Month or Sun's Place being given, to find the Afcenfwnal Bifference. Rectify the Bead for the given time, and afterwards bring it to the Horizon -, then the Degrees cut by the Thread in the Limb will be the afceniional Difference. And if the afcenfional Difference be converted into time, in allowing an Hour for 15 Degrees, and four Minutes of an Hour for one Degree, then we fliall have the time of the Sun's rifing before fix in the Summer, and after fix in the Winter : and confequently the Length of Day and Night may be known by this means.

USE VII. The Sun's Altitude being given, to find his Azimuth, and contrariwife.

Rectify the Fead for the time, and obferve the Sun's Altitude. Then bring the Thread to the Complement of that Altitude, and so the Bead will give the Azimuth fought upon or among the Azimuth Lines.

And to find the Altitude by having the Azimuth given, having rectified the Bead to the Time, move the Thread 'till the Bead falls on the given Azimuth -, then the Degrees of the Limb cut by the Thread, will be the Sun's Altitude at that time.

U S E VIII. The Altitude of any one of the five Stars on the Quadrant being given, to find the

Hour of the Night.

First, Put the Bead to the Star, which you intend to obferve, and find how many Hours he is from the Meridian by Uje IV. then from the Right Afcenfion of the Star, fubftract the Sun's Right Afcenfion converted into Hours, and mark the Difference : for this Difference added to the observed Hour of the Star from the Meridian, will fhew how many Hours the Sun is gone from the Meridian, which is in effect the Hour of the Night.

For Example ; The 15th of My, the Sun being in the' 4th Degree of Gemini, I fet the Bead to ArRurus, and obferving his Altitude, find him to be in the West, about 52 Deg. hiah, and the Bead to fall upon the Hour-Line of two after Noon ; then the Hour will be li° Hours 50 Mm. paft Noon, or 10 Minutes fhorc of Midnight. For 62 Deg. the Sun's right Afcenfion, converted into Time, makes 4 Hours 8 Min. which if we take out of 13 Flours rS Mm. the right Afcenfion of Artlurus, the Difference will be 9 Hours 50 Min. and this being added to two Hours, the observed Distance of Artlurus from the Meridian, (hews the Hour of the Night to be 1 1 Hours 50 Min.

Thus have I briefly fhe'wn the Manner of folving fevefal of the chief and molt useful Agronomical Problems, by means of this Quadrant. As for the Manner of taking Altitudes in Decrees, as likewise the Useof the Quadrat, fee our Author's Quadrant.

There are other Quadrants made by Mr Sutton long since •, one of which (being in my Opinion the beft) is a Stereographical Projection of 4. of those Circles, or quarter of the Sphere between the Tropicks, upon the Plane of the Equinoctial, the Eye being in the North Pole.

The said quarter on the Quadrant, is that between the South part of the Meridian, and Flour of Six, which will leave out all the outward Part of the Almicanters between it and the Tropick of Capricorn ; and inftead thereof, there is taken in such a like Part of the de- preffed Parallels to the Horizon, between the fame Hour of Six and Tropick of Capricorn, for the Parallels of Deprefllon have the fame Refpect to the Tropick of Capricorn, as the Paral- lels of Altitude have to the Tropick of Cancer, and will produce the fame Effect.

This Projection is fitted for the Latitude of London: and those Lines therein that run from the Ricrht-hand to the Left, are Parallels of Altitude ; and those which crofs them, are Azi- muths. The lefler of the Circles that bounds the Projection, is one fourth of the Tropick of Capricorn, and the other one fourth of the Tropick of Cancer. There are also the two Eclipticks drawn from the fame Point in the left Edge of the Quadrant, with the Characters of the Signs upon them •, as likewise the two Horizons from the fame Point. The Limb is divided both into Degrees and Time, and by having the Sun's Altitude given, we may find the Hour of the Day to a Minute by this Quadrant.

The Ouadranta! Arcs next the Center contain the Calendar of Months •, and under them in another Arc is the Sun's Declination : so that a Thread laid from the Center over any Day of the Month, will fall upon the Sun's Declination that Day in this last Arc, and on the Limb upon the Sun's right Afcenfion for that fame Day. There are several of the rnoffe noted fixed Stars between the Tropics, placed up and down in the Projection •, and next below the Projection is the Quadrat and Line of Shadows, being only a Line of natural Tangents to the Arcs of the Limb j and by help thereof, the Heights of Towers, SteepleSi fcff. may be pretty exactly taken.

Now the Manner of using this Projection in finding the Time of the Sun's rifing or fetting, his Amplitude, Azimuth, the Hour of the Day, &c. is thus : Having laid the Thread to the Day of the Month, bring the Bead * to the proper Ecliptick (which is called rectifying it), and afterwards move the Thread, and bring the Bead to the Horizon : then the Thread will cut the Limb in the Time of the Sun's rifing or fetting, before or after Six* And at the fame Time the Bead will cut the Horizon in the Degrees of the Sun's Ampli- tude. Again, Suppose the Sun's Altitude on the 24th of April be observed 45 Degrees, What will the Hour and Azimuth then be? Having laid the Thread over the 24th of April, bring the Bead to the Summer Ecliptick, and then carry it to the Parallel of the Altitude 45 Degrees : and then the Thread will cut the Limb at 55 Deg. 15 Min. and so the Hour will be either 41 Min. paft Nine in the Morning, or 19 Min. paft Two in the Afternoon. And the Bead among the Azimuths fhews the Sun's Distance from the South to be 50 Deg. 41 Min.

Note, If the Sun's Altitude be less than that which it hath at fix o'Clock, on any given Day ; then the Operation must be performed among those Parallels above the upper Horizon, the Bead being rectified to the Winter Ecliptick.

There are a great many other Uses of this Quadrant, which I shall omit, and refer you to Collins's Sector upon a Quadrant, wherein it's Defcription and Use, together with those of two other Quadrants, are fully treated of.

The Bead is a little round Leaden or Btafs Shot, with a /mall Hole thro" 1 it, that moves ftiffly up and doivrtt so as to remain at any Point or Part of the Thread of a Plummet fajlened to the Centre of the Quadrant.
